The Lives of Sea Turtles.

Turtles in the Sea.
This is a green sea turtle. A sea turtle has flippers
for feet. It flaps its flippers like wings when it swims.
A sea turtle has a shell that makes swimming easy. The
curved top and flat bottom help to lift the shell, and
the turtle can glide through the sea.

The shell keeps the turtle safe from danger,
too. But a sea turtle cannot pull in its head and
legs. The sea turtle has a very thick skin and
scales on its head and legs.

Sea turtles eat and sleep in the sea. The green sea
turtle eats tender sea grass that lies on the sandy
bottom. It swims to the top to breathe.
Turtles do not have teeth, but they do have strong
beaks. The beak of a sea turtle can crack shells. Sea
turtles might eat shellfish, jellyfish, small sea animals,
and wild sea plants.

Sea turtles only leave the sea to lay their eggs.
A mother turtle digs a nest in the sand. She lays
hundreds of eggs in a pile. Then she covers the
nest and returns to the sea. The sun keeps the
sand and the eggs warm and dry. Mother turtles 
never see their babies.

When the eggs hatch, the shells of the baby
turtles are soft. The little turtles must get to the
sea. They start to edge across the sand. Danger
awaits. Birds circle high in the sky. They eat many
of the little turtles. Crabs eat some, too.

The baby turtles can swim when they are born.
They can even find things to eat. But they are still
not safe. Big fish hunt the soft little turtles.
Hundreds of turtles hatch on the beach. Many
will be eaten. Not many will live to be big turtles.
At some time they will return to this same
beach to lay their eggs.

Baby Turtles.

"Papa!" yelled Carlos. "Come see the birds.
They are everywhere on the beach!"
"Turtle eggs must be hatching," said Papa.
"The birds are feasting on baby turtles."
"Baby turtles! Let's hike down there!" said Carlos.

"There are hundreds and hundreds of little turtles!"
said Carlos. "See, they are creeping to the sea."
"The little turtles try to get to the sea," said Papa.
"But it is a hard trip. Their flippers are made for
swimming, not for creeping on land."

"Their little shells are so soft," said Carlos.
"Their shells will get harder as the turtles
get bigger," said Papa.
"Go away," said Carlos. He waved at the flying gulls.
"Let the little turtles get to the sea!"
"Even then they may not be safe," said Papa.
"Big fish eat the soft little turtles, too."

"What will happen to the baby turtles?" asked Carlos.
"When they get to the sea, the little turtles will swim
as hard as they can for two days. They will not even
stop to eat. They may swim as far as Africa," said Papa.

"We will never see them again," said Carlos.
"Yes, you may," said Papa. "Green sea turtles travel
to faraway places like some birds do. But they come
back to the beach where they were born to lay their
eggs. These turtles will come back to this same 
beach for a long as they live."

"Here, little turtle, swim hard," said Carlos.
"You have a long way to go. Stay safe.
Please come back to our nice beach."
Turtles have lived in the seas for many, many
years. Turtles swam in the seas when dinosaurs
lived. Those sea turtles were very much like the 
sea turtles of today.