Joyce Writes a Good Story.

A Good Idea.
Joyce had to write a story for school. She
thought and thought, but she did not know what
to write about.
"Why not write about a boy and his toys,"
said her brother.
Joyce did not want to write about a boy 
and his toys.

Joyce's sister said, "Why not write about a girl
with brown hair and a beautiful voice?"
"That would not be my first choice," said Joyce.

Joyce's father was in the garden watering flowers.
Joyce asked him what she should write about.
"You could write about a man and his flowers,"
said her father.
"No," said Joyce. "That's not good."

Next door, Joyce saw Howard and Shawn
playing football on the lawn.
"Have you finished your story?" asked Shawn.
"Not yet," said Joyce.
"You should do it now," said Howard. "We must
read them out loud tomorrow."

Joyce found Mom and sat down with a frown.
"Did you think of something to write about?"
asked Mom.
Joyce shook her head.
"You should write about the things you know best," 
said Mom.

Joyce went for a walk. She walked and talked
to herself. She thought about what her mother
had said. Suddenly, Joyce had an idea.

Joyce ran back to her house as quick as a mouse.
She ran past Howard and Shawn on the lawn.
She ran past her father. She ran past her sister
and her brother.
"Where's the fire?" asked Mom.
"In my head!" shouted Joyce with joy.

Joyce took out her notebook. Her sister
entered the room.
"What is your story about?" asked her sister.
"A girl who does not know what to write
about," said Joyce.
"Am I in your story?" asked her sister.
"Of course!" said Joyce.

Joyce in Class.
"I am afraid to read my story out loud to the
class," said Joyce.
"Calm down," said Mom. "The class will
enjoy your story. But hurry or you will be late
for school."

Joyce looked for her books. She took her time.
She did not care if she was late. She wished she
could avoid school today.

Joyce caught the school bus. She saw Howard
and Shawn.
"We know our stories by heart," said Shawn.
Joyce felt worse. She wanted to know her story
by heart, too. She tried to practice reading it
on the bus, but the boys and girls were too noisy.

At school, Joyce talked to her friend Soo Lin. "I'm
afraid to read my story out loud," she said to Soo Lin.
"Me, too!" said Soo Lin. "But I thought I was the
only one who was afraid."
"I know!" Soo Lin went on. "I'll look at you, and
you look at me when we read. Maybe that will help
us feel brave.

When Joyce stood up to read, her knees shook.
She felt awful. She felt awkward. Then she looked
at Soo Lin, who was smiling. Joyce felt better. She
read her story, and the class applauded.

"Your story was really good!" said Soo Lin.
"So was yours!" said Joyce. "We don't ever have to
be afraid again ... as long as we are in the same
room and can help each other feel brave."