Kenny's Visit.

Jeff and Jean were playing checkers trying to pass the time until cousin Kenny came to visit. Dad came to speak with the twins. He appeared to be upset. 
Dad's face made Jeff and Jean remember Kenny's last visit. They had played tricks on Kenny and teased him. After, they had felt bad.

Please do not tease your younger cousin today, said Dad. I had to speak to you at least five times when he visited. 

You were both dreadful, wearing those masks to scare him, Dad went on to say. Kenny left in tears.
We will not be mean this time, said Jean.
I remember we had to call Kenny to say we felt sad about the way we acted, said Jeff.

Jean and Jeff had not meant to be mean to Kenny. They were just thinking it would be fun to try out some tricks older kids have pulled on them.

When Dad went back inside, Jean said, We had better think of something fun to do with Kenny. What about the beach? asked Jeff.

He is just six, said Jean. We cannot take him to the beach, but we can take him to the stream out back and teach him to fish.

So when Kenny and his mom came, Jane and Jeff said, May we take Kenny to the stream? We will teach him to fish.
Kenny was glad that his older cousins were spending time with him. He had a big smile. Dad said, Bring home lots of fish for supper. We will have a feast.

When Dad and Kenny's mom went to the kitchen to talk, the cousins went to the stream. 
Jim helped Kenny put a fishing pole in the water. Before long, Kenny had a fish on his line. 
By the end of the day the kids had six fish. The bucket was heavy.

Dad and Kenny's mom were glad that the older cousins did not tease Kenny. And they were really glad to have the fixings to make a great supper.

They had the fish the kids had gotten, bread, and summer squash. Dad had made a peach cake. Supper was yummy.

When Kenny left this time, he had a grin from ear to ear. So did Dad.
You know, he is a great kid, said Jean. It really is fun to have a younger cousin.
It is, said Jeff. And it is really much better to treat him the way we like to be treated. I hope he will want to come back the next time.


