The Castle.

On the way home from uncle Jim's, Tammy and Alex walked past a big old house.

Some kids call that house the castle, said Alex.
I wonder if anyone lives there, Tammy said.
I do not think so, said Alex.
Just then, there was a strange sound.
Did you hear that? Alex asked.
Yes. If no one lives there, what could it be? Tammy said.
Maybe someone does live there, said Alex. He pulled the gate handle, but it broke off and fell to the ground.

Be careful of the puddle, Tammy said.
You mean the moat? Asked Alex. I can jump the moat. It's simple.

Waaaaa.
Where did that sound come from? Tammy said.
Alex and Tammy began to tremble.
Maybe the Castle has a dragon! said Alex.
That is silly, said Tammy.
Alex said, it may be silly, but
Waaaaa.
The strange sound is coming from there, said Tammy.

Alex ruffled the bushes. It is like a jungle in there.
Then the same strange sound came from the bushes just before a gray cat walked out with a kitten in its mouth.
There is your dragon! said Tammy, with a chuckle.

It is a cat and its kitten! Said Alex.
You mean a cat and its kittens, said Tammy.

You found our cat! Someone said.
Alex and Tammy spun around.
I did not mean to scare you. I am Bea Gumble, she said, and this is my husband. Our cat, Bubbles, must have gone into the bushes to hide.

I think Bubbles went into the bushes to have kittens, said Tammy.
This big old house is getting to be a lot to take care of, trimming the bushes and all, said Mr. Gumble. And now kittens! Maybe we can help, Tammy said.

Mom! We went to the castle, said Alex, when he and Tammy got home. There was a sound in the bushes.
Alex said it could be a dragon, said Tammy, with a chuckle. 
But it was a cat with five kittens.

The Gumbles live there. They could use some help with that big house and with the kittens, said Tammy.
May we help them? Asked Alex.
Of course, said mom. That would be kind of you.

So the next day, Alex and Tammy went to the Gumbles' to help. When they were done, Mr. Gumble said, Thanks so much from us and from Bubbles and the kittens.

