The Best Gift.

Rick wanted a gift for his mother, but he wondered what to get her. He came up with a plan.
Rick said, "Mom, I need to find a gift for a friend, but I do not have a lot to spend. What can I do?"
"We can go to the Beech Tree Swap Shop!" said Mom. "Things are cheap there."
"Great!" said Rick.
At the swap shop, the sellers put up stalls and fill them with all kinds of things.
"I hope Mom sees something she likes," said Rick to himself.
"Then I can get it."
Rick and Mom walked from stall to stall.
"Do you want to give your friend a silly tee?" said Mom. "No," said Rick. My friend has a lot of clothes."

They stopped at another stall.
"Boats?" said Mom. She held up a cute little boat.
"I like it," said Rick, "but I do not think my friend would."
Mom held up a fishing rod and reel. "This would make a fine gift," she said. Rick said, "No, my friend does not fish."
 
"I see some fun things," said Mom. "would your friend like a whistle? A rubber eel?"
Rick scratched his head. Whistles and rubber eels were for little children, not for mothers! He needed time to think of another plan. "We should get something to eat," he said.
They headed for the canteen. Lee sold coffee and doughnuts from his canteen truck. He greeted Rick and Mom. "Great to see you!" he said.
Mom said, "We need help, Lee. Rick cannot find a gift for his friend."
Lee gave Rick a sheet from his pad. "List some things your
friend likes to do. That will help you pick a gift," he said.

Rick jotted some things that his mother had fun doing. Then he gave Mom the list.
Mom read the list. "So your friend likes plants," Mom said. "She likes to shop at the Beech Tree Swap Shop and spend time with people she loves. It seems that your friend is a lot like me!"
"Yes, she is," said Rick.
"Well," said Mom, kissing Rick on the cheek, "you should take your friend shopping at the Beech Tree Swap Shop. You could find a plant that she likes. Then you could spend time helping your friend plant it! That is what I would like best."
