Mick and Granddad's Doughnuts.

On Sunday, Mick and Beth walked home when the game was done. Mick had the note Coach Quinn gave them. It said, Bake sale Monday. Please bring something yummy! We must reach our goal of $300 to take our boat trip.

My mom and I will bake a cake. What will you make? Beth asked.
I am in trouble! Mick groaned. My mom has to go out at five o'clock. I do not think she can help me.
Does your granddad bake? Asked Beth.
I wonder, said Mick. He makes me breakfast. Maybe he can bake.

When Mick got home, his mom was putting on a coat.
Mom, I have to bring something to sell at the team bake sale, said Mick.
Well, you and granddad will have to make something, said Mom.

Granddad, can you bake? Said Mick. Coach says I have to bring something to sell at the bake sale.
Your grandma could bake! Granddad said. But I do not bake. I can just make things on the stove top. I can poach and fry eggs, and I can make oatmeal and French toast.

But, wait a second, said Granddad. I can make doughnuts. You do not bake doughnuts. You fry them.
Well, coach said it was a bake sale, Mick said.
I think doughnuts will be fine, said granddad, with a smile.

Granddad and Mick went into the kitchen. Granddad let Mick pour out the flour. He put a handful of this and a sprinkle of that into the mix.

Granddad told Mick to cut out the doughnuts with a big glass. Then he pushed a little glass into the middle of the round dough, and out came the doughnut hole.

Granddad out the doughnuts in the pan. They floated to the top. When they were tan and crispy, granddad flipped them.
What will we do with the holes? Mick asked.
We will fry them up, said granddad.

The next day, Mick set up his stand. He put the doughnuts on one plate and the holes in a basket.
There was a long line at Mick's stand. Lots of kids wanted doughnuts. The little kids really did love the doughnut holes! 
Yum! Said Ruth. This is the best thing at the bake sale.
At the end of the day, Coach counted up the cash. When he told the team that they had met their goal, they let out a roar.
You all did a great job, said coach.

When Mick got home, he hugged granddad and said, We made our goal. I hate to boast, but our doughnuts were the best thing at the bake sale.
Granddad was happy. Well, Mick, he said, that is great. You could say our doughnuts made a lot of dough.
