Chief and the Mouse.

In a little house, there was a pet cat called Chief. For many years, cats have helped people to catch small pests, like rats. But Chief had never tried to catch any small animals. He had no need for that. His people fed him delightful cat food each day.
Instead, Chief watched the field mouse that sometimes went inside the walls of his house. Chief spied on the mouse when it snuck out to look for food.
In some ways, Chief was like the mouse. He was a bit of a thief.
He liked to take twist ties and play with them. When his people found the twist ties, they picked them up and put them into the trash can.
So Chief always needed to find more twist ties to play with. He wished he could find a good spot to hide them so his people would not find t hem.
One day, Chief was sleeping in the kitchen. On the stove, yummy pancakes were cooking. He heard the field mouse come in just as the mother of the house left the kitchen. That was a close call for the mouse!
Chief watched the mouse come out of the wall, hop up on the counter, and then leap and run along the lip of the stove.
Then it happened. The mouse fell right into the frying pan! He landed on his feet on top of a pancake.
The mouse shrieked and tried to scamper out, but he slid on the cooking grease, which was hot. The mouse could not move. The poor thing was about to be fried!
"Help!" cried another mouse, who had just entered the kitchen. "Someone please help him. I am afraid he will die.
Chief acted quickly. It took just a brief second for him to leap from his bed to the stove, softly grab the mouse in his mouth, and pull him off the pancake and out of the pan.
Then Chief jumped onto the kitchen bench and set the mouse softly on it. He let him lie there to catch his breath.
The other mouse said, "Thank you, kind cat. We can pay you back."
The poor mouse lifted his head. "Well," he said, "I can tell you some good spots where you can hide your twist ties. I understand your people keep finding them and putting them in the trash."
"Yes!" said Chief. He was glad that he had shielded the poor mouse from being fried.
The mouse told him of some good spots to hide the twist ties, so he no longer had a problem.
The lesson of this tale is this: One good deed calls for another.
