Brother? Sister?

Amber and Rob Scott were so happy. Last fall, Mom told them they were going to have a sibling. Amber wanted a sister, but Rob wanted a brother.
One spring day, Dad said, "It will not be long. It may happen today!"
"Who will stay with us?" asked Amber. "Uncle Pete is on his way," said mom. The kids were happy. Uncle Pete was fun.
Just then, Uncle Pete walked in. "Hi, kids!" he said and gave them a hug.
"The train ran late," he said to Mom and Dad.

"That is fine, Pete, but we must get going," said Mom. "Rob and Amber, you may have a new sibling today."
"Bring me a brother," said Rob. "I want a sister," said Amber. "You are such a pain," said Rob.
"I will miss you, kids," said Mom. "Come give me a big hug." Both kids hugged Mom.
"Do not fret," said Uncle Pete. "The kids will be fine with me."
When Mom and Dad had left, Uncle Pete walked up the stairs.
He said, "I will be back."
"What do you think Uncle Pete is going to get upstairs?" said Rob.
Amber said, "I wonder."
They waited.
Uncle Pete came back with paints, paint brushes, and a long white cloth.
"OK, it is time to make a welcome home banner to hang up when your mom comes home with your sibling." 
"Brother," Rob said.
"Sister," said Amber.
Amber and Rob began the banner.
"Let's paint Mom and Dad and both of us," said Amber. So they painted all the Scotts.
Then they painted some kids with big smiles and some dogs and kittens and kites. So, the cloth was covered with happy things to welcome home Mom and the sibling.
Uncle Pete made a yummy dinner. While they ate, they got a call.
"It is your father," said Uncle Pete. Amber and Rob both came close to hear.
"I have something wonderful to tell you!" Dad said. "You both will be happy to hear this."
"What do you mean?" asked Amber.
"Mom had twins! You have a brother and a sister," said Dad. "Mom said to tell you that you both got your wishes."
On Sunday, Uncle Pete hung up the Welcome Home banner.
When Mom and Dad came home with the twins, Amber and Rob went to give them big hugs and kisses.
"I missed you so much," Mom said. "You both got your wishes and so did we. Dad and I have four wonderful kids."
Amber and Rob could not stop watching the twins. "They are so cute!" said Amber.
“We will teach them lots of things," said Rob.
"They are so lucky to have a wonderful big brother and big sister," said Uncle Pete.
