Rose, the Brave.

Rose Is Not Afraid.
Rose was a princess. But she was not an
average princess.
Rose boasted that nothing could scare her.
She was very brave.
"I am Rose, the brave!" she would say.

But no one ever believed Rose.
"You just sit on a throne all day. You don't
have to be brave to do that," they said.
"Fine," said Rose to herself, "I will just show
them that I am as brave as I boast. I will row
my boat to the far shore of the moat and show
that I am very brave."

Rose rowed her boat to the far shore with
no problems.
But when she reached the shore, she was
still not happy.
"That was not scary at all," she said. "I need
to do something really brave."
"I know," Rose said to herself, "I will go into 
the forest and show that I am really brave."

So Rose roamed the forest. The birds chirped,
and animals ran near her path.
"This is not scary," Rose said. "How will I show
that I am brave?"
Suddenly a voice said, "Hello!"
"Who's there?" Rose asked.
"I am a doe," came the reply.
Rose had never known a speaking doe before.
Rose felt frightened, and so she ran.

Rose could not run anymore, so she sat on a large stone.
She was upset that she had run when the doe spoke.
"I was not frightened," she told herself, "I was just
shocked. I am Rose, the brave."
"Hello, Rose, the brave," said a voice.
"Who's there?" Rose asked.
"I am a goat," came the reply.
Rose had never known a speaking goat before. Rose felt
frightened, and so she ran.

"This is silly," said Rose to herself. "I am not
frightened of a doe and a goat!" Rose struck a bold
pose by a toad on a log and said, "I am Rose, the
brave."
"Hello, Rose," said the toad. "It's nice to meet you.
I am Joe, the toad."
Rose had never seen a toad speak before. Rose
felt frightened, and so she ran.

Rose ran and ran.
She ran until she hit her toe.
"Ouch," cried Rose, and she fell into a hole.
"Oh, no!"

Rose Faces Her Fear.
"What will I do?" Rose asked herself.
"I am not really Rose, the brave. I ran when the
doe, the goat, and the toad spoke to me. I was
frightened."
Rose began to cry.
"I am all by myself, stuck in a hole, and I am very
frightened."

"I must get help," Rose said to herself. "I will
wipe my tears and try not to be frightened of the
strange animals."
"Hello, doe! Hello, goat! Hello, toad!" yelled Rose.
"I am stuck in a hole, and I need help."

One by one the three animals appeared, and Rose
told them how she fell in the hoe.
"We will help you," said the doe.
"Yes, I know just what to do," said the goat.
"You don't need to be frightened anymore," added
the toad. 
The doe got a rope, and the goat made a bow.
Then the toad let the rope go for Rose to climb up.

"Thank you so much," said Rose. "I am sorry I
ran when you spoke to me," she added. "I was
frightened of you."
"It's okay," said the animals. "We are glad we
could help. And you don't have to be frightened 
of us anymore."

So Rose left the doe, the goat, and the toad to
go home.
Rose did not want to admit that she had not
acted as bravely as her boast. But she could not
delay any longer. The king would be very upset
that she went into the forest by herself.

The king was angry, but very glad, when Rose got
home.
"I told you not to go into the forest alone," he
scolded Rose. "You are lucky you were not hurt."
"I know," said Rose, "but I had to show that I was
brave. I will never go into the forest by myself again."
Then Rose told the tale of her day. When she got
to the end, she said, "I was not so brave after all. In
fact, I was very frightened."

"Maybe you were frightened, but you were brave
as well," said the King.
"You faced a fear, and that is very brave. You
really are Rose, the brave."
Rose smiled and struck her bold pose.