Baking Princess.

Princess Fay Must Wed.
On Sunday, King Raymund went to Princess
Fay and said, "It is time. You must wed. You
spend too much time in this kitchen."

"I have no wish to wed," stated the Princess.
"But if I must, I wish to wed a baker! Then I can
make cakes and tarts with him!"
"It must be a baker who is a prince," added
King Raymund.

"Help Princess Fay!" King Raymund exclaimed. "She
wishes to wed a prince who can bake."
It was in all the papers and on T.V.

"I can bake cakes," said a man named Jake
to his mom, "and my lemon tart is terrific."

"But you are not a prince," said Jake's mom. "You are
fit to dig wells, not to wed a princess and bake cakes
with her."
"But I bake better cakes," said Jake.
"Go mend a fence," said his mom.
"I'd rather make lemon tarts," Jake said.

Jake did not mend the fence as his mom
suggested. He made his best cake, his terrific 
lemon tart, and his best muffins. Then he went
to stand with the princes at the gate. They
waited and waited for Princess Fay.

The Contest.
"Let's start," said King Raymund to the first
prince.
"My dog Cupcake and I will act as tasters,"
added Princess Fay. "If you can bake cakes
and make tarts, we will wed."

Princess Fay and Cupcake tasted and tasted.

But there was no cake that met Princess 
Fay's standards.

"Are things going well?" asked King Raymund.
"Not well at all," said Princess Fay. "Not one of them
can bake cakes or make tarts."
"I can," said Jake. "Just let me have a chance."

"Are you a prince?" asked King Raymund.
"I am not, but just taste," Jake said to Fay,
and handed her his tray.
Princess Fay tasted the tart. "This lemon
tart is the best," she said.

Princess Fay tasted the muffin. "Yum, yum," she said.
And then, "Yes, yes, yes! This is the best cake I ever ate."
"But he is not a prince," added King Raymund.
"I don't care," said Princess Fay. "The princes did not
bake cakes such as this."

Jake and Princess Fay felt sad.
The King felt bad.
Then Fay felt glad.
"Dad," she said, "I did not wish to wed yet. Let's 
make Jake the Palace Baker."
"Yes!" exclaimed King Raymund. "That is the
perfect way to fix this problem!
Then he turned to Jake, "You will bake with
Princess Fay."

The next day, Jake and Princess Fay made
cakes and tarts.
At the end of the day, Fay gazed at Jake and
said to herself, "Perhaps one day ...."
