The Stone Wall.

The Rumbling.
Wise Old Raccoon thought Stone Wall was perfect.
Everyone got along with each other, and that's what
he liked most. Every morning birds sang in the trees,
and the farmer led his horses out to graze.
Chipmunks left Stone Wall to look for food, and the
Skunk family returned home to sleep until evening.
Raccoon's community enjoyed complete peace.

Then one morning the horses didn't appear.
The animals felt a bit scared at first but decided
that the farmer might just be leading his horses
to a different file that day. They went on with
their day like always.

The next day, loud rumbling filled the air. The
animals didn't know what to make of it. But when
night came, all rumbling stopped. The animals
went to sleep, hopeful that everything might still
be okay in the morning.

When morning came, the animals woke to
more rumbling. Now they felt very scared. They
all came to see Wise Old Raccoon. Raccoon told
them he would find what was making the noise.

Wise Old Raccoon and Skunk went
exploring. At the top of the hill, they saw the cause
of all that rumbling. Three huge monsters, unlike
anything they had ever seen, were eating up
everything in their paths.

When Raccoon and Skunk got home, all the animals
were waiting for them. The explorers told of the cruel
and terrible monsters that chewed up everything in
their paths. Some animals were scared and voted to
leave right away. Others felt that it might be a mistake
to leave their perfect home at Stone Wall.

They debated until the sun began to light the sky.
When the rumbling started again, the animals were 
still undecided. But then the monsters appeared on
the hilltop. They were aimed at the stone wall!

The Search.
There was no time left, and the animals had to
go. They ran as fast as they could. At the edge of
the woods, they stopped to take one last look at
their home. Stone Wall was demolished, and they
knew that they could never return.

Wise Old Raccoon told them not to be scared.
They would look for a new home.

Someone suggested that they make their new
home in the woods. So they tried different places all
day long, but no place seemed quite right. It was just
too gloomy. Their old home at Stone Wall got lots of
sunlight. Raccoon suggested that they try the field.
The field always got plenty of light.

The animals roamed the field for quite a while
but did not decide on anything. There was plenty
of bright sunlight, but it still didn't seem right. It
was getting late, and it would be dark soon. The
animals were all in bad moods.

Just when they had lost all hope of finding a
new home, they came to a brook bordered by an
old stone wall. All misgivings suddenly left them,
and they felt quite pleased. Raccoon thought that
this new stone wall was perfect. It was just like
the old home.

The animals took their time, each one
looking for just the right spot on the new wall.
Getting everything set perfectly took a while.
It was quite late when they went to sleep. The
next morning they felt tired but very happy.
They had just returned to their daily activities
when a scary rumbling began.

Every animal stopped working and ran to look.
They all felt relieved that it was only a herd of
horses galloping by. They looked at each other
and smiled.