Peace and Quiet.

Becky's Problem.
In Becky's apartment the dog was barking, the
baby was crying, her dad was shouting, her grandma
was snoring, the television was blaring, and her mom
was cooking, clacking pots and pans.

Becky went into her room. She shared it with
two sisters. Her sisters were there, playing,
laughing, and singing. She could hear her brothers
wrestling in the next room. Becky had homework
to do. But how could she think with all this noise?
She needed peace and quiet.

Becky went into the kitchen. "Mom," she said.
"Things couldn't be worse. I can't think. I need
peace and quiet. I can't read like this. I can't write
like this. I can't do my schoolwork."
Mom looked at Becky. "What can we do, Becky?
We have a lot of people living in our apartment.
We have Dad and me, your three sisters, and two
brothers,  We have Grandma and Grandpa, and you.
That's ten people, Becky."

"But, Mom," Becky groaned. "I need my own space. I 
need peace and quiet. I need my own room."
"I know, baby," Becky's mom agreed. "I need the same
things. But it's just not possible right now."
"But, Mom," Becky cried. "I need things to be better."

"Okay," Mom said. "I have an idea. But you have to
trust me. You have to do whatever I say, no matter
what."
Becky didn't know what her mother had planned,
but she trusted her. Besides, things couldn't get
worse. "Okay," Becky said. "What do I do?"

Mom's Plan.
Just as Becky's mom opened her mouth to tell 
Becky the plan, Grandma let out a huge snore that 
shook the glass in all the windows. Outside, the train
roared by on its elevated tracks. The whole building
shook with the noise. Becky was even more eager to
get on with the plan.

"The first thing you do is ask Daddy to take the TV
out of the living room and put it in your bedroom."
"Really?" Becky was overjoyed. The TV in her
room! She'd always wanted that. "Okay, Mom," she
exclaimed. "Okay!"

"But how will that solve the problem," Becky
asked herself. It was great having the TV. But now
everyone came into her room to watch. Becky had
even less peace and quiet.

Becky went back to Mom. "Mom," she started, "I
don't understand. How did this help? Now everything
is worse."
Mom smiled at her daughter. "Becky, you promised
to do what I say, no matter what. Remember? Now go
get the radio. Ask Daddy to get the stereo and the
computer. Take them all into your room."
"But, Mom ..."
"Just do it, Becky."

Becky did as she was told. But nothing got better.
With the television, radio, stereo, and computer in
her room, there was barely space for Becky. Her 
whole family, all ten people, was in her room almost
all the time, watching, listening, typing, singing. Becky
had even less peace and quiet.

Becky complained to her mom. Mom just smiled
and reminded Becky of her promise. Then, she told
Becky to put all the family pets in her room. She also
had Becky get more pillows so Grandma and
Grandpa could sleep in her room, too.

"Mom!" Becky wailed. "How can this help? I have
even less peace and quiet!"
Mom smiled. "I have one last thing for you to do.
Ask Daddy to take out the radio, TV, computer, and
stereo. Give your brothers their fish, bird, and
hamsters back. Put out the dog and the cat. Ask
Grandma and Grandpa to sleep in their own room.
Then let's see what happens."
Mom's ideas had not worked so far, but Becky
decided to try this one last thing. "Okay, Mom," she
muttered.

So, Becky did what her mom said. Suddenly her
room seemed so quiet. Her sisters were still playing
on their beds, but they didn't seem as loud. Her
brothers were still wrestling next door, but they
seemed miles away. The TV still blared, but Becky
could barely hear it. Even the train passing outside
her window seemed far away. And you know what?

Finally, Becky could think. Finally, she had
peace and quiet.
