Nesting and Burrowing Birds.

Nests of All Kinds.
There is at least one way that all birds are the
same: they lay eggs. To keep the eggs and nestlings
safe, most birds make nests. When making nests,
however, birds display different skills and styles.

When it is time to make their own nests, most
adult birds return to the place where they
hatched. Every bird makes the same kind of nest
that its parent made.
Oriole, Tailorbird,
Ovenbird.

A lot goes on in nest making. Beaks lift, weave,
and drill. Feet stamp and dig! The process may look
disorganized, but the nests are very carefully
constructed.
Plover, Robin, Woodpecker.

We normally think of nests as being in trees. But
some birds make nests on rocky cliffs, sandy shores,
in the water, and even underground!

Surprisingly, quite a few birds are burrow diggers!
They make holes for their nests in trees, logs, cactus
plants, and even in the dirt.

Some birds use the discarded homes of other
animals for their nests. They take over the empty
den of a rabbit, skunk, or badger.

On the following pages you will meet just a 
few of these fascinating birds.

Which Birds Burrow?
Bee-Eaters.
These small, bright birds make holes in
riverbanks and cliffs. The common bee-eater
repeatedly hurls itself headfirst into the dirt until it
makes a dent. Then it stands in the dent and keeps
digging to make a deeper tunnel.

Burrowing Owls.
These birds lie in treeless grassland. They can
dig their own tunnels but prefer to take over
someone else's. A prairie dog's deserted home is
ideal. If the size is not exactly right, the owl simply
enlarges it. It uses its feet to kick dirt backward
out of the hole.

Elf Owl.
The elf owl also likes to make its home in
deserted holes. A tunnel drilled in a cactus by a
woodpecker makes a perfect nest for this tiny owl.

Kakapo Parrot.
The kakapo is the biggest of all parrots. It is
a flightless bird and spends its time on the 
ground. When it is nesting, it looks for holes
near tree roots.

Crab-Loving Plover.
The crab-loving plover is the only shorebird that 
nests underground. These birds live in large flocks
and make tunnel homes in sandy spots near the
sea. As their name suggests, crab-loving plovers
prefer being where crabs are plentiful.

Kookaburra.
The kookaburra, well known for its jungle
laugh, nests inside termite homes. It pecks a hole
in the termite nest and burrows inside. But the
termites don't leave. The bugs build a wall to
block the bird's nest.

Fairy Prion.
This bird digs its own home and then gets an
uninvited roommate. The tuatara, a prehistoric spiny
reptile, shares the nest. During the day, the prion
looks for food and the tuatara sleeps. Then at night,
the prion returns and the tuatara goes hunting.
As you have read, birds provide many styles of
homes -- from nests to burrows -- for their young.
