School Days Long Ago.

One-Room Schoolhouse.
Can you imagine going to school in 1776? That
was a long, long time ago -- more than 200 years ago,
in fact. Things were very different then.

Schools in those days were very small. Most had
only a single room. One teacher taught all the
children. Students were in grades one through eight
and were from six to twenty years old. Teachers
earned only four dollars a month.

The teacher arrived early to sweep and clean
the entire classroom. In winter, the building was
kept warm with a fireplace or a wood-burning
stove. Parents provided the firewood. Each 
morning, a different student would start the fire
before the other children arrived.

Before coming to school, many children had
chores to do at home. After the chores were finished,
the children walked miles to school or rode horses.
There were no school buses or cars.

The teacher would ring a bell to signal the
beginning of the school day. If there were two doors,
girls would enter the school through one door, and
boys would come in the other. Students had to stand
outside until after recess if they were late.

School started at eight o'clock each morning and
ended nine hours later at five o'clock. If there were 
many students, the younger children would go to
school in the summer. The older students would go in
the winter.

During the school day children were expected to
be as quiet as mice. With many ages in the classroom,
it was important that students behaved. If a student
disturbed the class or was rude to the teacher, the
teacher would keep the student in for recess. The 
student might also have to stay after school.

School Days, School Days.
Schoolbooks were in short supply, so children
shared. In some schools there might be only one
book for the whole class. Students often memorized
their lessons, then recited them to the class.

One book, called a primer, contained the
alphabet, numbers, spelling words, and poems.
During the first part of the day, the teacher worked
with the younger ones. Older students worked on
their own, studying and writing in their copybooks
by themselves. Copybook paper had no lines.
Students had to draw their own straight lines on 
the paper before they could write.

Good penmanship, or neat handwriting, was an
important skill for a farmer, storekeeper, or
craftsperson. Children used a slate pencil to copy their 
writing lesson from the blackboard onto a small slate.
Later, they used a quill pen and an ink pot to copy it
into their copybooks in their best handwriting.

Later in the afternoon, older students worked on
spelling, reading, and arithmetic while younger
ones practiced the alphabet. Because paper and
books were scarce, students learned to solve math
problems in their heads. Students also studied
history and geography.

Children carried their lunches in tin pails or 
baskets, or tied in cloth. Homemade bread and jam
were packed. Drinking water came from the well.
At recess, games were often made up and needed
little equipment. Leftover wood and string were used
to make spinning tops. Hoops from barrels were used
in races and other games.

Girls liked to play hopscotch, sing songs, and
play with cornhusk dolls. The boys played marbles,
tag, or football. Football was a rough game and was
played with a stuffed leather sack. The children
also liked to play hide-and-seek.