No Noise!

The Animals.
The sun was bright, the flowers smelled sweet,
and the birds were chirping out a song.
Joyce the cow was filled with so much joy that
she felt like singing, too!

"I will lift my voice in song and dance a jig
of joy!" said Joyce.
"Mooooo," sang Joyce as she went round
and round.

"Why are you singing?" asked Coil the pig.
"It is a great day! The sun is bright, the flowers
smell sweet, and the birds are chirping out a song.
I felt like singing, too," explained Joyce.

"Okay," said Coil. "Your song of joy has brought
me delight. I will join you."
He did just that. Joyce's happy "Mooooo" mixed
with Coil's excited, "Oink Oink" in a noisy song.

"Why are you singing?" asked Lloyd the rooster.
"The sun is bright, the flowers smell sweet, and
the birds are chirping out a song. I felt like singing,
too," explained Joyce.

"Okay," said Lloyd, "Your song of joy has filled 
me with delight! I will join you."
He did just that. Joyces's happy "Mooooo" mixed
with Coil's excited "Oink Oink" and Lloyd's loud
"Cock-a-doodle-doo" in a very noisy song.

"Stop that rowdy noise!" exclaimed Farmer Roy,
who was getting annoyed. "There is too much
work and no time for your silly songs. Keep your
songs inside."

The Children.
The next day, a class of boys and girls came to see
Farmer Roy's farm. He showed them the barn, the fields,
and all the machines, but they were not satisfied.
"We want to see the cows and the pigs," said the girls.
"And I want to see a rooster," said a boy.

"Okay," said Farmer Roy. "You will like my
animals. They make lots of noise."
When they got to Joyce, a boy stopped and
pointed.
"Mooooo!" said the boy.
But Joyce made no noise. She was full of joy to
share, but Farmer Roy had said "No noise!"

Farmer Roy was surprised.
"Hmmm," he said. "Let's try visiting the pig."
When they got to Coil, a girl stopped and pointed.
"Oink Oink!" said the girl.
But Coil made no noise. He was full of joy to 
share but Farmer Roy had said "No noise!"

Farmer Roy did not understand why Joyce and
Coil did not make any noise.
"There is still the rooster," he told the class.
"Maybe he will make some noise."
When they got to Lloyd, a boy stopped and 
pointed.
"Cock-a-doodle-doo!" said the boy.
But Lloyd made no noise. He was full of joy to
share, but Farmer Roy had said "No noise!"

"I am sorry," Farmer Roy said to the class. "I
don't know why they won't make any noise."
The boys and girls were sad.
"If we sing for them," the girls said, "maybe
they will join us."

They boys and girls lifted their voices in song.
But Joyce, Coil, and Lloyd stared at Farmer
Roy and did not make a sound.
The class did not give up.
"You must join us, Farmer Roy," they said
"Lift your voice in song!"

So Farmer Roy joined in the noisy song. When 
Joyce, Coil, and Lloyd saw Farmer Roy singing, they
were filled with joy. One by one, all lifted their
voices in song.
Joyces's happy "Mooooo", Coil's excited "Oink
Oink," and Lloyd's loud "Cock-a-doodle-doo" mixed
with Roy and the class in a very joyful song.
