Whales.

Types of Whales.
Whales may spend most of their time underwater,
but they are quite different from fish. Whales have
lungs and smooth skin. Fish breathe with gills and are
covered with scales. Whales swim differently, too.
Both fish and whales use their tails to swim. But a 
fish tail goes from side to side while a whale tail goes
up and down.

Like humans, whales are mammals. Baby whales
do not hatch out of eggs like fish. Baby whales grow
inside the mother and are alive during birth. After
its birth, the baby stays close to its mother so it can
reach her milk quickly.

Like other mammals, whales need air. A whale
cannot breathe in liquid, so it must swim to the top of
the water to get air. Before it goes back under, a whale
will fill up its lungs just like we do before we dive.
Some whales need fresh air frequently. They swim up
every two to three minutes. Others, like the piked
whale, can stay under for 120 minutes.

During birth, a baby whale doesn't breathe.
As soon as it is born, the baby must swim up
and fill its lungs with air. If a new baby has
difficulty swimming, the mother will help.

When a whale is underwater, air in its lungs
gets hot and damp. When a whale needs fresh air,
it rises up and blows the old air out of a blowhole
on top of its body. When the hot air hits colder
outside air, it turns into fog.

There are two different types of whales, based
on how they eat. Some whales have teeth. But
they do not use these teeth to chew. These
whales use their teeth only to catch their meals.

The killer whale or orca is one type of whale
with teeth. Orcas have very sharp teeth. The name
killer whale makes orcas seem scary. But don't be
frightened. An orca will not go after humans. It
uses its sharp teeth only on whales and fish.

Baleen whales have no teeth. In place of teeth,
they have baleen plates. When the whale feeds, it
takes in a lot of water. Then, when it pushes the
water back out, the baleen acts as a strainer. Tiny
fish that were in the water are left behind for the
whale to eat.

Biggest Whale.
Blue whales are huge. In fact, they are bigger than
any other creature. A blue whale can be more than
100 feet long, but most are 70-90 feet. This is longer
than four buses placed end to end. Blue whales can
weigh up to 150 tons. Lifting a blue whale would be
like picking up more than thirty elephants.

As huge as it is, the blue whale can still jump
up out of the water, and swim on its back. It's
quick, too, swimming up to twenty miles per 
hour. Its strong tail helps the blue whale swim
fast and jump high.

Blue whales must eat a lot. They eat mainly
krill, a shrimp like creature. Each whale must
consume one to two tons of krill each day.

Experts think that blue whales communicate
with hums. Adult whales hum in deep, cold
water. The cold helps the hums travel better.
These hums can travel as far as 100 miles. When
humans hear these hums, it seems that whales are
singing pretty songs.

At one time blue whales thrived. Whalers
hunted blue whales for their meat and whale oil.
Hunting reached its peak in 1931, and by 1966
there were so few blue whales left that a ban
was placed on hunting them.

Today, fewer than 10,000 blue whales survive.
For ever blue whale alive today, there used to be
twenty. Blue whales continue to be protected.
You can see them off the California coast in late
summer.