Loop and Hook a Dream.

Granddad Scott Tells Good Tales.
The teacher took the children on a field trip to
see Granddad Scott, the storyteller. The children sat
on the wood floor. Granddad Scott stood in front
of the children as he began to tell his colorful tales
of dreams and dreamcatchers.

"When I was a boy, I knew a man named Running
Brook. He made dreamcatchers by weaving yarn on
hoops. I liked sitting with him while he worked
because he told tales of his dreams.

From a nook in the wall, Granddad took down
a strange-looking thing.
"Running Brook made this dreamcatcher for
me out of string, beads, and feathers. He always
made something special to share.

Granddad Scott shook his dreamcatcher high
in the air. He pointed out that the dreamcatcher
is like a spiderweb. It is a perfect circle with a
hole in the center.

"Running Brook told me the bad dreams get
caught and tangled in the web part of the
dreamcatcher. The good dreams will go through
the hole in the center," said Granddad Scott.

"Running Brook said that some people hang a
dreamcatcher above their beds to sort through
the good and bad dreams. The bad dreams are
snared in the web. The good dreams slip through
the hole and float down the beads and feathers.
Only the good dreams land on the dreamer's 
head to be remembered.

Granddad Scott then shared two of his dreams
with the children. "In one dream, Hooting Owl says,
as he swoops to his tree, 'Be brave and not a fool.
Look in books for proof.'"
Granddad Scott explained that this dream had a
lesson. That is why he remembers it.

The second dream Granddad
Scott told was a silly one.
"Goose Skiddoo is in the
doorway of her house. She flaps her wings and
stoops low. Then she clears her throat and sings,
'Yellow, blue, red, and green! What can it all mean?'"

Mr. Raccoon stops by
and says, 'I'd like to share
my lunch with you, Goose Skiddoo.' Goose
Skiddoo thanks Mr. Raccoon for his good food.
Then she calls to Hooting Owl, 'Please have
noodles with us at noon.'"
The children laughed about this silly dream.

Look! A Dreamcatcher!
Granddad Scott asked, "Do you want to
make a dreamcatcher? You can loop the hoop
your very own way."

"You can hook the beads and feathers any
way you like, too! Just remember to leave a
hole in the center."

"Wrap your hoop with cloth. You can choose red,
yellow, green, blue. or purple string to loop a web.
Soon it will look like the spokes on a bicycle wheel."

Tie a feather to the end of a string, then thread
the string with beads. Hook the loose string to the
loop. You have made a dreamcatcher! Finally, add a
loop so you can hang your dreamcatcher."

The children looked at their finished dreamcatchers.
"Now you have your own dreamcatchers to hang. Next
time you visit, you can share your good dreams with
me," said Granddad Scott.