Sweet and Sour Soup.

Grandpa's Sweet and Sour Soup.
"How did this happen? Grandpa does not allow
pepper in his sweet and sour soup! Grandpa is very
proud of this soup. It is our daughter's secret recipe."

A crowd gathered in the small kitchen.
"What shall we do now? How do we let
Grandpa know that his sweet and sour soup has
pepper in it?"
Grandma frowned and looked down at the
kitchen floor. But then her eyebrows curved up
as she smiled.
"I have it! I found the answer!"

"We will make Grandpa some sweet 
and sour vegetable and dumpling soup."

"We'll mix flour and water in a bowl to make
dough. We'll pound the dough and roll it into little
balls for dumplings. Then we'll add the dumplings
and the vegetables to Grandpa's soup. It will be
ready in an hour."

Waiting for Grandma's New Soup.
"While our sweet and sour vegetable and
dumpling soup cooks, let's go for a walk down
by the pond. Maybe we'll see an owl or a cow.
Maybe we'll see a swan or a fawn."

"Wow! Look, Grandma! What is that?"
Grandma replied softly, "It is a big brown owl, my dear.
It has beautiful round eyes that can see in the dark."
"Look there! The brown cow is eating flowers!"

"Grandma! Listen! Hear the brown cow go 
'Moo!' What a loud sound the brown cow makes.
Look! It has frightened the fawn."

"Grandma, what are those birds? They look
like they are wearing white gowns!"
Grandma laughed, "Swans are so pretty in
their white feathery down. See the fawn drink.
I think he saw us!"

"What is this?" Grandpa took a sip of soup.
"Sweet and sour vegetable and dumpling soup?
I believe Grandma has found a new recipe! She
ought to write this recipe down."

Grandpa took another taste, then paused.
"And there's not too much pepper!"

"Grandpa! We walked down by the pond and saw
an owl, a cow, a fawn, and some pretty swans!"

"Yum! Yum! Grandma, this soup is delicious.
What is the secret of our house soup today?"
We all giggled and laughed loudly. Grandpa
caught us by surprise! He liked Grandma's sweet
and sour vegetable and dumpling soup!

We never found out who put the pepper in 
Grandpa's soup. We didn't care. We sipped and
swallowed every spoonful of Grandma's sweet and
sour vegetable and dumpling soup.