Little Hare.

Old Hare's Plan.
Lion had a fierce appetite. No matter how much
he ate, he was never satisfied. Some told that Lion
could eat fifty elephants and twenty giraffes and ten
zebras at once -- and then roar for more.
Each day Lion raided an animal village and ate
everything in sight. The animals were frantic.

Old Hare -- the oldest and wisest animal -- 
called an emergency meeting.
Old Hare cleared his throat, and the crowd
fell silent.
"I have a plan," he began, "that will save our
village and put and end to Lion."

A great noise rose from the crowd. Old
Hare called for silence.
"Each day," he continued, "One of us will
go to Lion and offer to be eaten. Then Lion
will leave the rest of us alone."
There were loud hurrays, speeches in
praise of Old Hare, and pats on the back.
But there were no volunteers.

Just then Little Hare piped up. "I will go," she said.
"Three cheers for Little Hare!" cried the animals as
Little Hare started out for Lion's house. "Farewell,
farewell, brave Little Hare!" they called out. But really
they thought she was foolish.

Little Hare knocked at Lion's den.
"What?" bellowed Lion.
"My name is Little Hare," said Little Hare. "I am
here to be your next meal. More creatures will follow
me each day. You will never be hungry again."

"Ho, ho!" roared Lion, flashing his big, shiny
teeth. "And what makes you think a little hare like
you will satisfy my hunger?"

Little Hare's Plan.
"You are right to laugh, Lion, sir," said Little 
Hare. "The truth is, I lied. I never thought I'd
be here all by myself. When I set out, there
were many of us."

"There were zebras, elephants, chimpanzees,
and lots of hares, like me," continued Little Hare.
"But a big lion jumped out of the river and
gobbled them all up. I am the only one left."
Lion's eyes flashed. "What big lion? I'm the
biggest lion there is! Show me this lion!"
"Well ...," said Little Hare. "I don't know ... he's
really scary."

"I don't care HOW scary he is," boomed Lion.
"Show him to me. How dare he eat my good dinner!"

Lion and Little Hare walked for miles and miles.
They crossed grasslands, plans, and marshes.
"Where is this big lion?" roared Lion. "I'm so
hungry I could eat ten of him -- and then have you
for a snack!"

"Almost there!" Little Hare sang out. "Just a little bit
farther!" And still they walked, and still there was no
big lion.
"I've had it!" cried Lion in disgust. "You have tricked
me! There is no big lion. There is just me and you --
and I am going to eat YOU right now!"

Just then Little Hare began to hop up and down.
"Look!" she cried. "In the river! I see him!"
Lion raced to the riverbank and stared into the water.

Lion roared, "So you robbed me of my meal! Come
out of the water and fight!"
But the big lion stayed put.
"If you won't come out and fight," Lion growled, "I'll
come in and get you." Lion bared his teeth and
narrowed his eyes. So did the big lion.

With a great roar, Lion jumped into the river. Little
Hare stood by and watched from behind the tall
grass. Then she quickly ran back to the village before
Lion came out of the water.
When Little Hare returned to her village, she
shared her news with the happy crowd. "Lion will
not be able to find his way back to our village. We
will never see that Lion again.