Say It in Code.

Communicating in Code.
Have you ever written yourself a note or drawn
pictures that nobody else could understand? Or spoken
so that only one person understood? If so, you were
using a code.

A code is like a language. Codes can be very
simple -- or very complicated. Codes can work by
switching letters of the alphabet.

Codes can use patterns of beeps
or dots
or hand signals
or flags
or even flashlights.

Codes have been used for a long, long time.
Before telephones were invented, the telegraph
was used. Messages were sent on the telegraph
using Morse code. Each letter of the alphabet in
Morse code is made up of dots and dashes.

Some codes are easy to figure out. Other codes
take teams of trained experts a long time to "crack."
For thousands of years, armies have used codes to
prevent enemies from knowing secret battle plans.

Another type of code was invented to help
blind people read books. It is called Braille and is a
special system of printing. Raised dots form the
letters of the alphabet. Blind people read by
touching the dots with their fingers.

People who do not hear well use a code
called sign language. Communicating is done
using hands. Words and letters are made with
hand shapes and movements.

Say It with Flags.
Flags have been used for thousands of years to send
codes. Sailors use two flags to send semaphore code.

The positions of the flags stand for letters and
numbers. Red-and-yellow flags are used at sea. Red-
and-white flags are used on land.

The international flag code is used around the
world. Each flag stands for a letter of the alphabet.
Sailors join two to five flags together with clips to
spell a word or a code meaning.

Each international flag also stands for a phrase.
For example, the flag for the letter O also means
"man overboard." The flag for the letter C also
means "yes." People have to be able to read the
messages correctly.

A flag can also be used to send Morse code. The
flag is moved one way to mean a dot and moved
another way to mean a dash. This code, called
wigwag, is slow and is not used very much.

Flags are used to signal boaters when bad weather
looms. Storm warning flags warn boaters of strong
winds. When boaters see the warning flags, they can
head for safety.
Small Craft Warning:
winds up to 38 miles per hour.
Gale Warning:
winds from 39-54 miles per hour.
Storm Warning:
winds from 55 to 73
miles per hour.
Hurricane Warning:
winds at least 74 miles per hour.

Flags are also used in car races. Car races are
noisy, and the drivers can't hear. They need a code
they can see. If there is trouble on the track, a 
yellow flag is waved. This tells the drivers to slow
down. A checkered flag is waved when the winner
crosses the finish line.
Old codes continue to be used, as new codes are
invented. Someday, you may create a code of your
own to enjoy and share.