Dead as a Dodo, Bald as an Eagle.

Dead as a Dodo.
The stories of the dodo and the bald eagle begin
in the same way but have very different endings --
one sad and one happy. Read on to see how the
story of one bird showed us ways to help the other.

Do you know this saying: "Dead as a dodo"?
Do you know what it means?
The dodo was a bird that one lived, but is
now extinct. Extinct means that there are no
more. They have all died.

The dodo was about the size of a turkey. It had a
large hooked beak, small wings, and a heavy body
with fat yellow legs. The dodo was a bird, but it was
unable to fly. It lived in forests on an island in the
Indian Ocean.

The story of how the dodo
became extinct stars on an island
near Africa. It is a place with rich
soil and lush plants.
Mauritius.

When Dutch settlers landed on the island in
1598, there were many dodoes living there.
By 1681, less than one hundred years after
Dutch settlers first landed, every dodo had died.

Dodoes built nests on the land but not in
trees. When settlers came, they had dogs and
wild pigs with them. Pigs and dogs raided dodo
nests and ate the eggs. Dodoes laid only one
egg at a time, so their eggs were quickly eaten.

Settlers cleared land for homes and farms. This left
dodoes with less room for nesting. Dodoes started dying,
and before long they had vanished. That is why we
say "Dead as a dodo." It means vanished, or extinct.

Bald as an Eagle.
Have you ever seen pictures of bald eagles?
Most likely, you have. The bald eagle has been the
United State's bird since 1782. Its picture is on
dollar bills we use every day.

The bald eagle has a brown body with a white 
head and tail. Its beak, eyes, and feet are yellow.
Perhaps you know the saying "Bald as an eagle."
The bald eagle is not really bald. It got its name
from its white head. Unlike dodoes, bald eagles
are strong fliers and lay eggs in trees or on high
cliffs. Bald eagles live only in North America.

In the 1940s, farmers began using a new spray to
help get rid of bugs that ruin crops. This spray hurt
bald eagles as well as other birds and animals. After
being near this spray, many bald eagles could not
lay eggs. Those that could, laid eggs with thin shells
that cracked before the chicks were ready to hatch.
Bald eagles were in trouble.

More than bug spray harmed bald eagles.
Many eagles lost nests when people cleared land
for homes and factories. Eagles had fewer places
to live. Just like dodoes, bald eagles began dying.

Bald eagles were in trouble, just like dodoes
had been. But this time, Americans decided to 
help. Laws were passed that protected eagle
nesting lands. In 1972, the United States
stopped using bug spray that hurt eagles.

That help came just in time for eagles.
There are still not as many bald eagles as
before, but things are better. We are learning
to care for bald eagles as well as other
animals. We are learning to share Earth.