The Inventor of the Telephone.

"Mr. Watson, come here. I want to
see you!"

These were the very first words
spoken on the telephone. The man who
said them had just burned himself by
mistake. He was calling for his helper
to come to his aid. He was Alexander
Graham Bell, the inventor of the
telephone. He soon forgot about his burn
when he found that Mr. Watson had
clearly heard him speak.

He was born Alexander Bell on
March 3, 1847, in Scotland. He shared his
name with his father and his grandfather.
The elder Alexander Bell was an actor as
well as a speech expert. His father, too,
was a speech teacher. His mother was a
painter and a gifted pianist.
It was expected that Aleck, as he was
called, would also be a speech teacher, as
would his two brothers. He was home 
schooled until he was ten. Like his
mother, young Aleck was a gifted pianist.
People fully expected to see him perform
in a symphony hall when he got older.
But it was not to be.

A year after he had entered school,
Aleck decided to take on a middle name.
He wanted his name to be different
from his father's and grandfather's,
so he added Graham, the name of
a family friend. He was now
Alexander Graham Bell. People stopped
calling him Aleck and started calling
him Graham.
Graham was not a good student.
He did poorly in subjects that did not
interest him, such as math and Greek.
He ended up leaving school when he
was only fifteen. He went to live with
his grandfather in London, England.
The old man was alarmed that Graham
had been such a poor student. For a year,
he worked with the young man, helping
him to learn to speak correctly.

Day after day, Graham read well 
known plays and speeches, learning
them by heart and reciting them. All
this work was fun for him. It made him
become more and more interested in
speech and sound. Looking back, he
would say that this phase of his life, the
year with his grandfather, was one of the
most important times in his life.

Around this same time, Graham
and his brothers began helping their
father with his work on something he
called visible speech. This was a system
Graham's father had devised that used
graphics to show deaf people how speech
organs, such as the lips and tongue,
looked when making a given sound.

It was a way for deaf people to "see"
speech, since they could not hear it. He
would publish his work in 1866, in a
book called Visible Speech.

While he helped his father, Graham
also became a student teacher at the
Weston House School in Scotland. He
gave lessons in music and speech. He was
younger than some of his students.

In 1866, Graham began working
on how certain sounds are made.
He had read about electric tuning forks
that could be made to produce sounds.
This made him wonder if speech could
be telegraphed, or sent over great
distances. It was also the start of his
interest in electricity.


In 1868, when his father left to give
talks on visible speech in America,
Graham took over his work in London.
Then something terrible happened.

One brother had already died of a deadly
illness called TB. Now his older brother
was killed by the same illness. The doctors
told Graham that he was in danger too.
The Bells moved to Canada, which was
considered to be a healthier place to live.
Soon, Graham was healthy again.

In 1871, Graham's father was asked to
come to Massachusetts to teach visible
speech to Sarah Fuller, who ran a school
for deaf children in Boston. He could not
go but sent young A. Graham Bell, as he
now liked to be called, in his place.

That summer, he made up his mind to
commit his life to teaching deaf people.
In the fall, he began his own school
for training teachers to work with deaf
students. He also worked on a pamphlet
called Visible Speech Pioneer. In 1873, he
went to work for Boston University.

One of the deaf students in his class
was a fifteen year old girl named Mabel
Hubbard. She had been deaf since the
age of five. Her father was one of the
richest men in Boston. Hubbard was well
known for his dislike of the telegraph, a
way of sending messages long distances
over wires. One of the big problems with
the telegraph was that only one message
could be sent over a wire at a time.

It seems that young Bell was hard
at work on this problem. His days may
have been spent teaching, but his nights
were spent working on a plan for sending
several messages over one telegraph wire.
Hubbard heard about this work and
offered Bell funding.

At this point, Bell was not thinking
about transmitting speech over long
distances. He was thinking about
improving the telegraph, which sent
messages composed of short and long
sounds (dots and dashes). It was not until
1874, while staying with his father, that
Bell began to think about what came to
be the telephone.

For a time, he was hard at work on
both the telegraph and telephone. But
Bell was not good with his hands. He
lacked time, skill, and parts needed for his
work. Hubbard sent him to a shop that
made electrical devices. There, he was
lucky enough to meet Thomas Watson,
who began to help him in his work.

Bell gave up his teaching. Day after
day, night after night, he and Watson
worked in the attic above the shop. They
strung a telegraph wire from one room
to another. At one end was the speaker,
a transmitter that sent sounds along the
wire. At the other end of the wire was
the "ear," or receiver. The men would
send electric waves along the wire from
the transmitter to the receiver.

They were not having much luck until
one steamy summer day. On June 2,
1875, Watson was sending sound waves
from the transmitter to the receiver. The
wire got stuck, so Watson plucked it. At
the receiver, Bell was thrilled to hear a
sound. Their work moved quickly after
that. By September, Bell was getting
ready to apply for a patent, which would
protect his invention. But then Watson
fell ill, and nothing more was done until
the following winter.

Mr. Hubbard took Bell's patent to
the U.S. Patent Office on the morning
of February 14, 1876 and was granted
the patent number 174,465. He was just
in time. That very afternoon, another
inventor, Elisha Gray, claimed to have
invented the telephone  but he was too
late to be granted a patent.

Soon after, Bell uttered his well 
known cry: "Mr. Watson, come here.
I want to see you!" The telephone was
born. The first telephone company, the
Bell Telephone Company, came into
being in July of 1877. Two days later, Bell
wed Mabel Hubbard.

Bell became very wealthy but never
lost his interest in research and inventing.
And he never stopped working with deaf
people. He wanted to give every deaf child
the chance to speak. He did more than
anyone of his time to change the way
people treated those who could not hear.
On August 1, 1922, Alexander
Graham Bell died holding Mabel's hand.
He was 75. As he was being laid to rest,
all the telephones in North America
were silent in his honor.