The City of Troy.

Until the 1870s, people believed that
the city of Troy was not real. It was the
stuff of legends. One legend told about
a great war between the Trojans (the
people of Troy) and the Greeks. This
was called the Trojan War.

In this legend, the Greeks win the
war by using a clever ploy. Like with
many old cities, high, thick stone
walls surrounded Troy. Great gates
were built into the walls so that people
could come and go. But when Troy was
under attack, the gates were barred shut.

The Greek army was outside the
gates, while the Trojan army stood an
top of the high walls and shot arrows
and other weapons at them. Suddenly,
the Greeks seemed to be in retreat. They
all left the field and withdrew into the
woods. The Trojans waited to see if the
Greeks indeed had given up.

Meanwhile, the Greeks had a plan. They had built a huge wooden horse. A few brave men hoisted themselves up and hid inside the belly of the horse.

The wooden horse was dragged out
of the woods and left outside one of
the gates of Troy, looking like a huge
toy left behind by a careless child.

The people of Troy thought that this
horse was a gift from the Greeks, who
they believed had fled back to Greece.
Some people of Troy dragged the horse
inside the gates. Inside its belly, the
hidden Greeks kept very still.

In the middle of the night, the Greeks
slipped out of the horse, opened the
gates, and let in the rest of the Greek
army. The Greeks all joined forces and
made a surprise attack on the sleeping
people of Troy. The war was over.

The Trojan War and the Trojan horse
may or may not have been real, but Troy
was a real city. Actually, it had been
many cities. All of them were hidden,
one on top of the other, under layers of
rock and soil.

Digging at Troy was begun in 1870.
By 1871, it was clear that more than
one city was built on the same site.
Two cities were dug up at the time.
At the second, older site, royal fortunes
of gold and silver (plates, cups, jewelry,
and coins) were found near the bottom
of the dig. Was this the old city of Troy?


No, it was not built at the time that
the great city had existed, over 4,000
years ago. It turned out that the city of
Troy had been destroyed many times
and then built again on the same site.

The lowest level, the ninth city, is
thought to be the Troy told about in
legend. The people of Troy who may have
fought the Trojan War were alive during
a time that is called the Bronze Age.
The ninth city matches this date.

Troy continues to fascinate people
today. You may have seen movies or read
books about the great city. But many
people make a point of seeing the real
thing. They come from all over the world
to visit the actual remains of Troy. They
are not disappointed. As they explore the
site, they can enjoy the feeling that they
are part of a great legend.
