A Tale of King Midas.

The Greeks of long ago had tales of heroes
and fools, gods and humans. Their stories
live on today. You may have heard someone
referred to as having "the Midas touch."
Here is the source of that saying:

Long ago there was a rich and
powerful king named Midas. He was
also foolish and rash, not one to think
carefully or to take another's wise
advice. It so happened that the great god
Dionysus  was passing
through Midas's kingdom. With him
were many friends, including the god
Silenus.

Silenus was an old man who
frequently got tired. As he rode on his
donkey, he began to nap. His donkey
trotted behind the others and began to
stray from the trail. Dionysus and his
merry band were making music, singing,
and dancing. They did not see Silenus
and his donkey go off on their own.
After a while, the donkey came to a rose
garden, where the sleepy Silenus tumbled
off into the flowers.

Before long, King Midas's gardeners
came to tend the garden. They found
Silenus sleeping soundly among the
roses. They knew at once who he was
and treated him well, as befit a god.
They put a wreath of roses around his
neck and helped him to his feet. Then
the gardeners carefully led the sleepy old
man back to Midas's castle. They went
to fetch the king, who was overjoyed to
greet the unexpected visitor.

King Midas clapped his hands to
summon his servants. He demanded
that his cooks prepare a feast fit for
the god. He instructed other servants
to fill the hall with fresh flowers and
to set the table with the finest silver
plates and goblets. Then he ordered
a band of music makers to play some
pleasing tunes that would amuse
his visitor.
Midas set Silenus at the head of
the table and sat beside him. As the
pair enjoyed the music, tasteful treats
were brought in and set before the old
god. Silenus roared with delight as one
magnificent dish after another was added
to the feast.

All at once, Dionysus appeared,
seeking his old friend. King Midas
introduced himself and bowed before
the great god. Dionysus was delighted to
see that Silenus had been treated so well.
"You have done well, Midas," he said,
smiling. "This pleases me. I will give you
any gift that you desire. You have only
to name it. But think hard and take care
what you wish for."

King Midas looked around at the
huge feast that had been prepared for
Silenus. He looked at his silver plates
and goblets, remembering golden plates
and goblets that he had seen at another
king's table. Golden dinnerware was the
kind truly fit for a king  not silver. His
head was suddenly filled with a desire for
gold. He was weary from eating so much
food, and he was not thinking clearly.

"Give me the power to turn all I
touch into gold," he exclaimed.

Dionysus frowned. "That is not a wise
choice. Think again."

These words annoyed King Midas.
"Even though you are a god," he said
coldly, "I do not think you should be
telling me what to wish for. You said I
could have anything I desire."

Dionysus sighed. Humans could be
so foolish, but who was he to argue with
the king? "You shall have it," he replied.
"As soon as Silenus and I depart, the
power will be yours."

King Midas walked with the gods
through his rose garden to the gates at
the edge of his property. After bidding
them farewell, he spun around. Desire
was a fever inside him. What should he
touch first? An oak tree was growing
beside the garden. He reached for a leaf
on an overhanging limb. One moment,
the leaf was soft and green. The next
moment, it was stiff and shiny gold. It lay
in the king's hand like a beautiful work
of art. King Midas laughed with delight.

Now he was the greatest king in the
world. The golden touch, it seemed, was
in his hands. Soon he had turned a pile
of rocks into lumps of gold, pink roses
into gilt flowers, and a wooden garden
chair into a golden throne.

King Midas rushed back to his castle
and sat down at his table. The dishes had
not yet been cleared. The King amused
himself by turning his silver plates
and goblets into golden ones. Without
thinking, he picked up a piece of bread
and bit down on it.

He nearly broke a tooth. Aghast,
he looked at the golden crust in his
hand. "I shall have to eat without using
my hands," he whispered to himself,
trying to ease his nerves. He leaned
down and picked up a grape in his
mouth. But before he could chew it,
the soft juicy grape had become a hard
golden ball.

The king was stunned to find that
the touch was in his mouth as well.
If he could not eat, he could not survive.
This golden touch was not a gift, it
seemed, but a curse. In a fever of fear,
he began to shout: "Great god Dionysus,
I should have listened to your wise
advice. I am a stupid fool. Please take
away your gift before it kills me!"

"Go to the river of Pactolus,"
a voice said softly in his ear. "Wash
yourself in the river, and the gift shall
be washed away as well." The voice
grew firm. "The next time, Midas,
think carefully before you decide what
you wish for."
King Midas thanked the god
and journeyed quickly to the river
Pactolus, careful not to touch anything
on the way. He stepped into the river
shallows and let the cool waters rush
over him. The sand at the bottom
of the river began to turn into
shimmering gold dust as the power
of the golden touch washed away from
the king.

From that day on, King Midas hated
gold. He detested other kinds of riches,
too. The king began to live a simple life.
He spent his days in the country, eating
nuts from the trees and berries from the
bushes. He listened to the music of the
fields and streams. No more castles and
feasts and fancy music makers for him.
King Midas was overjoyed to be rid of
his "Midas touch." But today, this phrase
is used to describe a person with a great
gift for making money. It is considered a
lucky trait to have. It no longer refers to
King Midas of the old tale, a greedy man
with a foolish desire for gold.