The Hawk.

The name hawk is given to a
large group of flying animals that are
birds of prey. A bird of prey hunts for
animals, catching and eating reptiles,
small mammals, and other birds.

All birds catch and eat other animals,
but most of them hunt for much smaller
prey, such as insects and small spiders.

Birds of prey are built for hunting and
eating larger prey. They have powerful
feet with four long, thin toes  three
pointing forward and one turned back.
At the ends of their toes are long,
curved claws called talons. These claws
are awfully sharp. They are perfect for
grabbing prey off the ground or out of
the air and gripping it firmly for the trip
back to the nest.

Birds of prey also have strong,
hooked beaks because they may need
to tear apart large prey before eating
it. Something else that all birds of prey
share is excellent sight. They can spot
the slightest, smallest movement from
quite far away.

Hawks are found all aver the world
except at the South Pole. Their nests
may be built high up, on cliffs or in
treetops, or on the ground. Some hawks
build bulky nests of sticks and grass.

Some just scrape away a spot on a cliff.
Others simply take over the nests that
other birds have made. After mating,
mast female hawks lay from one to three
eggs that hatch in 30 to 35 days.

When they hatch, baby hawks are
wearing thin coats of down. These thin
coats soon give way to much thicker down
coats. The baby hawks grow quickly,
fighting over the food their parents bring
back to them. In 30 to 60 days, they are
ready to hunt for themselves.
When hunting for prey, some hawks
perch in trees as they carefully search
the ground below for the slightest hint
of movement. Others soar through the
sky on broad wings that barely flap,
spotting their meals from high up in the
sky. Once prey has been sighted, a hawk
swoops down and makes a kill. It may
eat its prey on the spot or it may take it
back to its nest.

One of the most common hawks in
the U.S. is the red tailed hawk, a stocky
bird with broad wings and a rounded
tail. Its body is dark brown on its back
and on the tops of its wings. Its feathers
are a lighter color on its underside.

The red tail is the largest of the hawks,
tipping the scales at 4 pounds. The
female red tail hawk is quite a bit larger
than the male, which is true of most
birds of prey.

The red tailed hawk hunts in
woodlands and open grasslands,
coasting in wide circles high in the
sky as it searches for prey. If you looked
up and saw it from below, you would
miss the deep red on its tail that gives
the hawk its name. The red tailed
hawk's tail is a rusty red on top but
is much paler when seen from below.
Even if you never saw it, though, you
could tell if a red tailed hawk was flying
nearby. The bird sounds a high, shrill
keee yaar that lasts for 2 to 3 seconds.
It's easy to tell the hawk's cry from
other bird cries.

So if you are ever out hiking and
you hear that strange shrill scream,
look up. There, way high up in the sky,
slowly circling around, you will find a
red tailed hawk.