The Shark.

What animal are you most afraid of?
If you said "shark," you're not alone.
The shark is surely the most feared
sea animal. Sharks are found in all the
world's seas and at almost all depths.
Although they live in seas throughout
the world, they are most common in
warm waters.

Sharks come in all sizes. The smallest
one, the dwarf shark, can fit comfortably
in your hand. The largest one, the whale
shark, is the largest of all fish. Large
ones may be around 50 feet long, but
some have been known to reach 60 feet
in length!

The amazing shark has been around
for millions of years. We have found
the remains of shark teeth that are at
least 140 million years old. Sharks have
not changed much across the ages. The
sharks of today look much as they did all
those millions of years ago.

Sharks are not like most fish. For
one thing, most fish have skeletons made
of bone, just like people. But a shark's
skeleton is all cartilage, with no bone at
all. Cartilage is softer than bone and can
bend. It's the stuff under your skin at the
end of your nose.

A shark's gills are different from a
fish's gills. Most fish have one gill flap
on each side of their head that they
pump water past in order to breathe.
Sharks have between five and seven
gill slits. Most sharks can't pump water
past these slits. They must constantly
swim with their mouths open to force
water through their mouths and past
their gills.

Most fish have swim bladders. These
organs, which are like air filled balloons,
help fish stay afloat in the water at all
times. Sharks don't have swim bladders.
If they stop swimming, they start to sink.
But sharks do have something else that
helps them stay afloat with a little effort
on their part. In their huge livers, they
store large amounts of oil. Oil is lighter
than water and helps the shark stay afloat,
as long as the shark is not completely still.

The shark has been called "the perfect
hunter." It is perfectly adapted for a life
spent searching for food. Most sharks are
carnivores, which means they eat meat.
These meat eating sharks catch and eat
fish, including other kinds of sharks!

Sharks tend to have sleek, rounded
bodies that are shaped like torpedoes.
This streamlined shape helps the shark
slip quickly through the water. The
shark's skin looks smooth and sleek, but
it's not. It is, in fact, covered with small,
sharp, toothlike scales. These scales
make the shark's skin very tough.

Sharks have a keen sense of smell,
which helps them search for food.

A shark can pick up smells from a
quarter mile away.

The shark's sense of hearing works
together with its sense of touch. Its main
way of hearing is something called a lateral
line. This is a strip of cells that run along
the sides of its body and into its head. This
line picks up sound and movement. The
sounds the shark hears best are at the low
end of the sound range, too low for people 
to hear. It also picks up the slightest water
movement. It is alert to any thrashing
movements  signs that a fish might be
hurt and easy to catch.

Sharks see best in dim light, which
is why they tend to hunt in early
morning or at night. They also have a
sixth sense. Every animal gives off 
a weak electric current when it is in
water. Sharks have pores, or small
openings, on their heads that tell
them where the current is coming from
A fish may lie hidden under the
sand on the sea floor, but the shark
can still pick up the electric current it
gives off.

The shark's mouth is perfectly adapted
to hunting. Its teeth are quite remarkable.
It has several rows of them. Most rows 
are slanted toward the rear of the mouth.
Each row is slightly larger than the last.
When the shark bites a victim, its sharp
teeth slice through the flesh. The rear
teeth hold fast to the victim. It's easy to
get something into a shark's mouth, but
try getting it back out! The shark always
has the same number of teeth. If a tooth
is lost, another grows in its place. A shark
may grow 24,000 teeth in ten years' time.

The more we learn about sharks, the
more amazing and remarkable they seem!