The Statue of Liberty.

The year was 1865. The U.S. had
just finished fighting the Civil War.
A Frenchman named Laboulaye 
wanted France and the
United States to work together to make a
monument that would stand for the great
concept of Liberty. It would be made in
France and given to the United States.

A friend of Laboulaye's wanted
to make this grand monument and
went to the United States in 1871 to
seek support. His name was Auguste
Bartholdi.

During this trip, Bartholdi picked
the Upper New York Bay, in New
York Harbor, as the site for his new
monument. The plan was to have it
ready for America's centennial, its 100th
birthday, which was on July 4, 1876. In
1875, the Franco American Union was
formed to raise funds and be in charge
of the huge project.

Bartholdi had already come up with a
plan for the new monument to Liberty, a
huge statue of a lady holding up a torch.

He modeled the face of the statue after
his mother. Actual work on the statue
began in 1875. Since the statue would
be so huge, it had to be constructed in
different parts.

For each part, Bartholdi and his
workers built a full scale model (based on
Bartholdi's smaller models) and covered
it in plaster. The workers then had to
construct a huge wooden form that
matched the shape of the plaster model.
Then other workers placed thin sheets
of copper inside the form and hammered
the sheets to fit the wooden mold.
Needless to say, it was long, hard work!
It soon became clear to Bartholdi
that the statue could never be ready by
its due date of July 4, 1876. So he came
up with a new plan. He would send
the hand holding the torch, which was
virtually finished, over to the United
States so that it could be displayed.

The arm was a breathtaking 42 feet high.
(Think of seven tall men standing on top
of one another to get a sense of how big
it was.)

In 1878, the statue's great copper head
was finished and displayed in France.
It was taken through the French streets
on a cart pulled by 12 horses. Crowds
gasped to see how huge it was  more
than 17 feet high. Liberty's stately face
smiled down on the people with a mouth
that was three feet wide.

In 1882, to keep funds rolling in,
Bartholdi wanted to show people how
much had been constructed. So he held
a picnic for the French press on Liberty's
Knee. Waiters pulled up food and wine in
baskets, and visitors ate at a large picnic
table that had been set up.

A couple of years later, the statue was
virtually finished. (The United States
had returned her arm.) On July 4, 1884,
the Franco American Union presented
the Statue of Liberty to the American
people. The United States minister to
France accepted the gift.

In May of 1885, France said goodbye
to the Statue of Liberty. It was carefully
taken apart and packed into crates that
were loaded first onto a 70 car train and
then onto a ship bound for the U.S.

The crates were numbered so that
United States crews could put the pieces
back together.

There was a problem, though. When
the ship sailed into New York Harbor,
Liberty's American made 89 foot high
base was not ready. Work had begun
on the base in 1884 but funds had run
out. Joseph Pulitzer, a United States
newspaper publisher, stepped in and
asked Americans to help. And help they
did! Schoolchildren, teachers, farmers  
people from all over the United States  
sent in what they could, whether it was
a few pennies or a few hundred dollars.
By the end of the summer of 1885, work
on the base started up again, and it
continued until April of 1886. At last,
the statue could be put back together. It
took a good 8 weeks to do so.

October 28, 1886, was declared
Bartholdi Day in New York City.
Huge crowds arrived to see the statue
for the first time. President Grover
Cleveland and the French Ambassador
were there, along with other important
people. As crowds cheered, marching
bands, floats, schoolchildren, and
members of the armed forces made their
way through the rain to the harbor.
Out in the harbor itself, a fleet of ships
tooted and whistled. And there, on her
new base in the harbor, stood Liberty,
with a huge red, white, and blue banner
draped over her head.

Bartholdi tugged on a rope. The
banner fell to reveal the great copper
face of Liberty. The crowds roared, guns
were fired, and bands played loudly.
Eventually, President Cleveland rose to
speak. "We will not forget," he said, "that
Liberty has made here her home. . ."

It had taken 11 years for the Statue
of Liberty to be made and make it to
her home in New York Harbor. In 1986,
100 years later, New York City threw
her a grand birthday party, complete
with crowds, music, performers, and
fireworks. Liberty looked her best for
the party. The statue had just had a lot
of work done to restore its beauty.

The Statue of Liberty still stands in
the same place, holding her torch high.
More than 2,000,000 people visit this
true symbol of liberty each year.