The Tomb of King Tut.

It was the summer of 1922 in The
Valley of the Kings, the place where
Egyptians had buried their royal leaders.
Howard Carter stopped his climb to the
work site and gazed across the valley.
In this place 28 pharaohs, or kings, of
Egypt had been placed in tombs that
were more like homes than graves.

Entombed with the kings were all their
riches and delights of life. These known
tombs had been discovered and emptied
long before this day. For almost seven
years Howard had combed a small
area of the valley seeking the tomb of
Tutankhamen, or
King Tut, the boy king who had died
over 3000 years ago. Others said he was
looking in the wrong place. Howard
knew he was not wrong.

He would find King Tut's tomb
for George Herbert, Earl of Carnarvon,
who trusted his knowledge and had
supported his work. This man had
known Howard for a long time. He
knew Howard could work well in the
ghastly heat of the desert. He knew
Howard could reach their goal of
discovery. But Howard himself was not
so sure anymore. His friend George
wrote this seventh try had to be the last.
The search had to end. Not because
Howard was wrong, but the money
was gone. As Howard gazed across
the valley, his stomach in a knot, he
wrestled with his failure and the end
he had to face.

Howard heard a shout. A worker ran
to him. The worker looked as though he
had seen a ghost. The man spoke fast.
Under the rubble from another tomb, a
worker had found a stone step leading
down into the earth. Howard felt numb.
Was this the tomb he was to find? He
held the worker's wrist, and together
they ran to the dig site.

Howard knelt and saw the stone
step. It was the start of stone stairs
cut into the bedrock covered with
rubble and trash. The workers quickly
removed the rocks, sand, and trash to
find a set of stairs that led down to
a rubble filled entrance in the rock.

It took several days of work climbing
up and down to empty the tunnel. At
the end of the tunnel was excitement
and disappointment. Howard found a
doorway blocked by large stones.

He was aghast. By the seals on the
stones, Howard knew the stones had
been set hundreds of years ago by
royal authority after the tomb had
been broken into by tomb robbers.

Fear stuck him like a knife. Had he come
this far to find that robbers had already
wrecked his dream? For hundreds of
years the tomb sites had been plundered.
First by tomb robbers seeking the
riches they held, later by thieves selling
artifacts to collectors and careless
explorers of old tombs.
Howard covered over the door and
steps and wrote to his friend George
about the discovery of the tomb of
King Tut. He would go no further until
George could sail from England and be
at his side when it was time to open the
door to the tomb. When George arrived
two weeks later at The Valley of the
Kings, they knew it was time to continue.

The refilled tunnel was made clear so
Howard could knock a hole in the door.
He knelt and wriggled a candle through
the hole and was struck dumb with
amazement. He saw strange animals,
statues, and the glint of gold.

Howard and George knelt together.
Howard knocked the hole wider.
"What do you see?" asked George.
"Wonderful things!" Carter
exclaimed. They saw a glittering
array of royal artifacts crammed into
a small room from top to bottom
that had not been touched for 3,000
years. The tomb contained wonders of
Egypt that had never been seen before.

There were three couches covered
with gold leaf on which were piled troves
of objects, including perfume jars, ivory
and ebony game boards, and a beautiful
throne. In a corner was a jumble of
royal chariots sheathed with gold and
gemstones. A door to another chamber
was found. A glance revealed the room to
be so full of rare objects that there was no
space left on the floor. There were inlaid
boxes, carved stone vessels, and a stack of
fancy chairs. Throughout the chambers
were gilded beds and footstools, baskets
of fruit and bread, jugs of wine, 50 chests
of household goods, and 35 model boats.
Large wooden statues of King Tut stood
on either side of a stone doorway.

Behind the door were the shrines of
the mummy of King Tut. There were
more wonderful finds: a golden knife,
several golden coffins, masks, combs,
wrist and neck jewelry. They were all
designed to protect and assist the young
king on his journey into his next life.

King Tut was about nine years old at
the time he became ruler of the kingdom
of Egypt and died when he was eighteen.
Because of his short time on the throne,
he had little chance to prepare as large
and magnificent a tomb as the earlier
Kings. However, the riches placed within
his modest tomb were wonders to behold.
Howard carefully recorded everything he
saw and took many photographs before a
single piece was removed from the tomb.
Earlier tomb discoverers had not been so
careful in recording their finds. They
left wrecks behind and did not record
details of the discovery. Howard was
determined to preserve a careful record
of the discovery to expand the knowledge
of these people and their King Tut.

It took seven weeks to photograph and
clear all the items out of the first tomb
chamber. The work continued despite
the death of Lord Carnarvon in 1923.
It was over a year before Howard would
open the tomb shrines. Then another
year passed before the huge stone
container holding the king's body was
opened. The mummy was inside a nest
of three coffins  two coffins of painted
wood and the last of gold. In the wrap of
the mummy alone were found 143 pieces
of amulet jewelry.

Howard Carter's work on the tomb
and the materials found within continued
as he carefully wrote about his discoveries.
It was 1932, a decade after the discovery,
before Howard was able to present the last
of 5,000 items found in the tomb to the
Cairo Museum where these wonderful
artifacts may be seen today.