The Boy Who Thought Friends Could Be Bought.

Dilbert was Mr. and Mrs. Mora's first
and last child. They thought he was so
perfect when he was born that they never
wanted to have any more children.

As he got older, Dilbert was given
everything he wanted. Whenever he
seemed unhappy, Mrs. Mora would try
to cheer him up by giving him lots of
different things, until she found the
one thing that would make him happy.
Dilbert became very used to having
whatever he wanted.

You might think that this made
Dilbert a rather difficult child when he
did not get what he wanted. However,
because they always gave him what he
wanted, Mr. and Mrs. Mora never found
Dilbert to be at all difficult.

At first, Mr. and Mrs. Mora kept
Dilbert out of school. His mother taught
him at home. She was pleased that he
had such an eager mind and was so quick
to learn. Dilbert's problems began when
he went to school for the first time.
The teacher presented him to the class
as Dil Mora. Dilbert didn't say anything.
He rather liked the name Dil. He had no
problems during class. After all, he was a
quick learner and listened carefully to the
teacher. His problem came during recess.
Dil caught sight of a girl throwing a
tennis ball against a backboard in the
playground. He decided he wanted to play.
"I want that ball," Dil told the girl,
holding out his hand.

"I had it first," the girl said.

Dil was shocked. No one had ever said
no to him before. He thought about it
for a while. But not having the ball made
him want it more than ever.

"Are you sure you won't give me
the ball?" Dil asked again, holding out
his hand.

"Well, maybe," the girl said. "What
will you give me for it?"

Dil stood there for a while, deep
in thought. Then it came to him. He
reached into his backpack and pulled
something out. "I have a new Monster
Club card that I brought with me to
school. Do you want it?"

"Yes, yes!" said the girl. Some
Monster Club cards were very hard to
find. The girl handed Dil the ball as she
reached for the card. Then she dashed
off to show it to her friends.

Dil played with the ball far a while
but then got bored. It was not much
fun playing by himself, so he went
over to where two boys were playing
basketball together.

"If you let me play basketball with
you, I'll give each of you one of my
Monster Club cards," he said to them.
He had a ton of these cards at home. He
was glad that he had brought several to
school with him in his backpack.

The two boys looked surprised. "Sure,"
they both said. They took the cards, put
them away, and played basketball with
Dil until the bell rang.

The next day, when Dil went out
to the playground, everyone crowded
around him. They asked Dil what he
had in his backpack. He passed out small
plastic Doom Fighters that his mother
had just bought him. They glowed in the
dark, and all the children wanted one.

"I will be your best friend," Tonya
said.

"No, I'll be his best friend," said Lee,
pushing Tonya out of the way.

"No, me!" cried Phil, pushing at both
of them.

"No, me!" the others shouted. They
all pushed and fought to get near Dil.

"Man, this is great!" thought Dil.
"They all want to be my best friend!"

As soon as everyone had a Doom
Fighter, though, something funny
happened. The kids all went back to
where they had been playing. Dil was
left alone.

"I'd better bring something better
tomorrow," he thought. "Something so
good that they will all stay around and
want to play with me."

The next day, Dil brought even more
interesting things for the children. Again
they took his offerings and then left him
standing alone. Dil was puzzled. What
would it take to make them stay and be
his friend?

This went on for quite a while, until
one day a new child named Robbie came
to the classroom. At recess, the new boy
spotted Dil standing alone. He walked
up to Dil and began talking. Right away,
Dil offered him same candy. Robbie said,
"No, thank you." Then he kept on talking
to Dil. After a while, the two boys turned
to watch some kids doing dance steps.

"I know that song," Robbie said.

"So do I," said Dil.

"I play it on my flute," Robbie said.

Dil's face lit up. "So do I!" he said
with a smile.

The two boys talked for a while about
playing the flute. Then Robbie asked if
they could get together after school.

Dil was thrilled. No one had ever asked
to get together with him after school.
Suddenly Dil frowned. "Wait a second,"
he said. "What do I have to give you?"
Robbie looked puzzled. "Give me?
Why do you have to give me something?"
he asked.

"So you'll be my friend," Dil said.
"What do I have to give you so you'll be
my friend?"

Robbie shook his head. "You have
given me something, Dil. You have given
me your friendship. We are friends,
aren't we?"

"Yes," Dil said. "But don't you want
something from me?"

"Sure," said Robbie.

"I thought so," said Dil. "What do
you want?"

"I want a friend to share stuff with  
thoughts and interests  and to do stuff
with. That's what friends give to each
other," said Robbie. "It's like what we
just talked about. You love playing the
flute, and I love playing the flute. We
can share and give each other something
by playing our flutes together."

Dil thought for a while. Then he
smiled. "It's a deal," he said, reaching out
to shake Robbie's hand. "We're friends."
Just then, the other children on the
playground came running up to Dil.
"What will you give me today to be
your friend, Dil?" they all shouted.

"Nothing," said Dil, with a glance at
Robbie. "Friendship has to be shared, not
bought."

As you know, Dil is a quick learner.