Valley Forge.

It was the autumn of 1777, and things
were not going well for the Continental
Army and its commander, General
George Washington. This army had
been formed barely two years before,
when America was still a British colony.

Washington had been its commander 
in chief from the start. Most of his men
were volunteers. Some of them were just
boys, and some were old men. All of
them were poorly trained, if they'd been
trained at all, and many lacked weapons.

Even so, Washington and his army
had recently beaten the British in New
Jersey, in battles at Trenton and Princeton.

But these successes had shamed the
British commander, General Howe.
He had set out to take Philadelphia.
At the time, it was the capital city
of the struggling young country. He
clashed with Washington and his army
at Brandywine Creek in Pennsylvania.
Washington had been forced to
withdraw his troops, leaving Howe's
army to take over the capital.


But then Washington had struck
back, attacking the British forces camped
at Germantown, north of Philadelphia.
The plan had backfired. In the heavy
fog, the men of the Continental Army
had gotten confused and fired on one
another. Again, Washington's troops had
been forced to retreat.

Now winter was coming. Washington
had to look for a place for his weary,
beaten army to camp for the cold months
ahead. He wanted a site that could be
defended, in case the British decided to
attack. And he wanted to be near enough
to Philadelphia to worry the British who
were occupying the capital.

He chase Valley Forge, on the west
side of the Schuylkill
River. Then began a race against time.
The exhausted troops had to get to this
site and set up living quarters before they
froze to death in the winter cold. After
all, these men were mostly dressed in
rags, some without coats or even shoes.

Their journey ended on December 19,
1777, as they marched and limped into
Valley Forge. It was Christmastime.
Other Americans were planning their
Christmas dinners of turkey with all the
trimmings, kidney pies, and honeyed
hams. But the Continental Army was
starving. Christmas was not a joyful time
for them. And when they awoke on the
day after Christmas, it was to find that
four more inches of snow had fallen.

Fifteen people were crammed into
each of the huts that had quickly been
put up. Many of the officers used local
farmhouses for their headquarters,
but some stayed in the huts with the
enlisted men.

There were women at Valley Forge
as well, suffering alongside the men.
They were the wives of enlisted men
and officers. They worked as hard as
the soldiers, doing the laundry,
cleaning, cooking, and caring for the
sick and injured.

This was just the beginning of their
hardships. The winter at Valley Forge
was a terrible time. One out of ten
soldiers would not make it through.
Washington kept trying to get money
for food, clothes, and medical supplies
from the Continental Congress, the
governing body at the time.

He was not successful. Although some
supplies were sent, they could not make
it through the snowy passes to get to
Valley Forge.

Any men who were still strong
enough to walk had to journey forth in
search of food and firewood. And any
who could still stand were set to guard
the encampment. These guards were
sometimes forced to stand on their hats
to keep their bare feet out of the snow.

Finally, after some three months of
intense suffering, things began to get
better at Valley Forge. As the weather
lightened, the Continental Congress
was able to send in wagons with food
and other supplies. A company of bakers
arrived. The Schuylkill River was now
swarming with fish that were easy to
catch. Fresh volunteers began to arrive
in camp. France entered the war on the
American side, providing money and
military support.

The ill trained troops, now with
food in their bellies and clothes on their
backs, were ready for some real military
training. Volunteer officers from
abroad came to Valley Forge to train
the Continental Army in the kind of
military tactics they would need to defeat
the British. They included Baron von
Steuben and
the Marquis de Lafayette. 
The men were trained and
drilled, learning the proper use of the
bayonet and how to fire by volley.

On June 8, 1778, Washington and his
troops were ready to leave the horrors
of Valley Forge behind. Howe and his
troops, fearing a clash with Washington's
strengthened troops, retreated from
Philadelphia on June 18. They headed
for New York City, which was in the
hands of the British at the time. The two
armies would soon clash in New Jersey,
and the Continental Army would win.

The winter at Valley Forge had been
one of the darkest times in American
history. But through it all, the suffering
men and women encamped there had
stayed loyal to the American cause and
to General Washington. Some say it was
the "spirit of liberty" that kept them
going. Others say it was Washington's
firm yet caring leadership.

This was an army that had been
severely tested at Valley Forge and had
stayed the course. This was an army
that would finally claim victory over the
British and win the freedom for which it
had fought so long and hard.
