The Voyager Spacecraft: Messages for Outer Space.

Space probes, unlike spaceships, have no
astronauts on board. They are sent where
it would be too risky to send live crews.
The United States began sending up
Space probes to explore our solar system
in the 1960s. These probes sent important
photos and other data back to Earth.
One probe, launched in 1965,
provided the first images of the landscape
on Mars. It also sent back data about
the atmosphere on the "red planet."

In 1977, Voyager 1 and Voyager 2
were launched. Their first goal was
to explore the large outer planets:
Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and
Neptune (tiny Pluto was skipped).
These spacecraft were identical. Both
were equipped with powerful cameras.
From their vantage points in space, the
twin probes would give scientists the
first detailed images of the outer planets.
Although it was launched sixteen
days after Voyager 2, Voyager 1 reached
Jupiter first, in March of 1979. It had
been set on a faster path than its twin,
which reached Jupiter in July. The
voyage for each had taken over 1 1/2 years,
but remember, each little spacecraft had
some 390 million miles to travel!

As they passed by Jupiter, Voyager 1
and Voyager 2 sent back dramatic images
and data. Scientists were thrilled to learn
that Saturn was not the only planet with
rings. Jupiter had them, too, although
they were very faint. Scientists learned
of three new moons circling Jupiter and
found out that one of Jupiter's moons
was alive with volcanoes. It was the only
body in the solar system, other than
Earth, known to have them.

Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 were
then directed to move on to Saturn.
Voyager 1 reached the ringed planet
in November of 1980, while Voyager 2
did not get there until August of 1981.

The Voyagers sent back footage of huge
storms on Saturn that were thousands
of miles wide, with winds up to 994
mph! They also showed that the planet
had more rings than scientists thought.
Instead of six, there were as many as
1000 distinct rings.

Voyager 2 was then sent on a side trip
to Uranus, arriving in January of 1986,
and from there to Neptune, arriving in
August of 1989. The photos from Voyager
2 revealed large scale storms on Neptune.
Scientists had thought the planet was far
too cold to support such storms.

In 1990, the Voyagers passed beyond
Pluto. They are now in empty space,
traveling to the edge of our solar system
and beyond. They both bring the same
message from Earth, should they reach
life forms on another populated planet.
This message is on a 12 inch gold plated
copper disk. It contains sounds and
images that represent life on our planet.

There are images and sounds of the
surf pounding on the beach, of birds
and whales singing, along with other
animal noises. There is music from
different times and from different
places on Earth. There are spoken
greetings from people in 55 languages.

There are printed messages from Jimmy
Carter, who was president then, and
from General Waldheim (VALD hime)
of the United Nations. A language of
symbols is used to tell how the twin
spacecraft were built and to show how
to play the records.

Scientists estimate that it will take
the Voyagers 40,000 years to reach
another planet. Of course, they might
be damaged or wrecked by a passing
asteroid before then. But if they manage
to have a safe passage, who knows who
might someday be listening to a hopeful
message from the people of Earth!