Did You Know?

Sports.
There are lots of different sports and games.
Did you ever think about how they started?

Did you know ... that a teacher named James
Naismith invented basketball in the late 1800s? The
first game was played with a soccer ball and round
peach baskets. When a player made a goal, someone
had to go up a ladder to get the ball out of the 
basket. When the ball bounced into the crowd, it
was out of bounds. The first player to get to it got to
throw it back in. Between that and fighting for
rebounds, the games could get pretty rowdy.

Did you know ... that baseball was first named
Rounders and then Town Ball? In 1845, men in 
New York City started the first United States team.
They named themselves the "Knickerbockers."
Players who argued with the umpire were fined
twenty-five cents.

Did you know ... that ice skating has been
around for more than 2000 years? People in the
Netherlands skated to classes and jobs over
frozen channels. They made blades out of bones
and then tied them on their boots with cow hide.

The first ice-skating club was founded in
Scotland in 1742. To be a member, you had to jump
over three hats.

At first ice skaters were pretty stiff and dull, but
in the 1870s, Jackson Haines changed that. Haines
added costumes and music to ice skating. He did
fancy steps, spins, and jumps. Now ice skating is not
just a way to get from place to place - it's a sport
and a fun pastime for people around the globe.

Did you know ... that bowling is more than
7000 years old? Rounded stone balls and pins
have been found in graves in Egypt.

Bowling has its own word meanings. Do you know
what a blowout is? It's when only one pin is left
standing. How about a dodo? That's a bowling ball that
is bigger than the allowed size. Have you ever made
three strikes in a row? That's known as a turkey!

Did you know ... that the first Frisbee was a pie
tin? When the makers found that discs made of 
plastic flew better, they replaced the tin model. In
1964, the Pro Frisbee came out, and Frisbee
became a sport. Do you know how far one kid
threw a Frisbee in a contest? More than 440 feet!
There are even Frisbee contests for dogs. They
can't throw the discs, but they can catch them -
in their mouths.

Fun Stuff.
Did you know ... that in Tonga, only girls
juggle. Some girls juggle as many as seven limes
or chestnuts. Sometimes in contests, the girls
juggle so well and the contest lasts so long that
everyone is declared a winner.

Did you know ... that the first kites were made
in China more than 2500 years ago? Historians 
think these kites were made out of large leaves
and twisted vines.

Over the years, people have used kites for lots of
different things. The Wright Brothers studied kites
to help them figure out how to fly. The first 
airplane was really more of a box kite than a plane.

Did you know ... that in 1975, printing
presses for Monopoly games printed more
money that the United States government?
The game's presses printed $40,000,000,000 in
fake bills. The United States' printing presses
made $22,000,000,000 in real bills that year. 

Monopoly was invented in 1932 by a man
named Charles Darrow. He used the names of
streets in Atlantic City, New Jersey. The first
game was made on a plastic tablecloth.

Did you know ... that the word yo-yo means
"come-come" or "return" in the Philippines? Kids
in the Philippines have played with yo-yos for
years, but yo-yos didn't come to the United States
until the 1920s. By the 1940s yo-yo experts went
from town to town teaching kids how to do
tricks. "Sleeper," "Lindy Loop," and "Whirlybird" are
just a few of the countless yo-yo tricks.