Silly Riddles.

How Could This Be?
Dawson the rabbit was hungry. Across the lawn,
he saw a garden with a fence around it. Dawson's plan was to get into the garden and gnaw at the
yummy, raw vegetables. But when he got to the
garden, Dawson paused. There was a flaw in is
plan. Dawson just fit between the slats of the fence.
After he ate, he'd be too fat to get back out. The
vegetables were too big to fit through the slats.
Dawson ate as many vegetables as he wanted
without getting stuck in the garden.
How could this be?

Dawson crawled into the garden. Then he
hauled the vegetables to the edge of the fence. He
left them on the inside and squeezed back out.
Then he sat down and ate the vegetables through
the fence.

Officer Law went for a walk. While he was out,
it started to rain. He did not have an umbrella or a
rain hat with him. His uniform was soaked, but not
a hair on his head got wet. 
How could this be?

Officer Law's hair didn't get wet because he is bald.

Five girls walked to school under one tiny umbrella.
Not one of the girls got wet.
How could that be?

The girls stayed dry because it wasn't raining.

One night, Rosa was sitting in her chair, reading a
book. Because she felt chilly, she got up to get a
shawl. Suddenly, there was a blackout - all the lights
went out. Rosa had no flashlights or candles, but she
wrapped the shawl around her and kept on reading.
How could this be?

Rosa didn't need the light because she was
reading Braille.

What Is It?
Paula the astronaut was camping in August. One
morning at dawn, she woke up, stretched, and
yawned. Then she felt something in her pocket. It
had a head and a tail, but it had no legs. Paula
found no cause for alarm?
What is it?

It is a quarter in Paula's pocket.

This is something that must always be
broken before it is used.
What is it?

It is an egg.

In order to eat this food you first throw away
the outside and cook the inside. Then you eat 
the outside and throw away the inside.
What is it?

It is an ear of corn.