The Worst Birthday Ever.

What's Up With Max?
Roy woke up early. He was too happy to sleep.
Today was his birthday! He smiled, thinking of his
party after school. Roy had invited kids from his
class. And his best pal Max would be there. Roy
and Max did everything together.

When Roy got to his classroom he went right
over to the Reading Rug to sit next to Max. Max
always saved a place for him on the Reading
Rug if he got there first.
"Sorry, Roy, you can't sit here. I'm saving it for
Andrew," said Max.

Roy was upset. Why didn't Max sit with him?
Why hadn't he wished him happy birthday?
"I'm having the worst birthday ever," Roy
mumbled under his breath.

On the playground after lunch, Roy ran right
over to the tire swing. He was first in line. Roy
waited for Max to join him. Roy and Max always
played on the tire together. They went higher
than the other kids.

Roy waited and waited. No Max. Roy ended
up swinging by himself.
"I'm having the worst birthday ever," Roy
mumbled under his breath.

After school, Roy waited for Max to join him on
the bus. Roy had saved him a seat. Roy knew they
would have fun on the bus. It didn't matter that
Max had avoided him all day. Now they would be
pals again, and at five o'clock his party would start!

But then Roy saw Max's mom drive up. Max and 
a few other kids loaded into the car. Roy rode
home on the school bus by himself.
"I'm having the worst birthday ever," Roy
mumbled under his breath.

When Roy got home, he looked at the new toys
he had gotten from his mom and dad and from his
grandmas and grandpas. What good were they if 
he had no best pal to share them with? And how
could he enjoy his party without his best pal Max?
He just knew it would be awful.

Pals Forever.
The clock struck five, but Roy waited in his
room. He didn't feel like coming out. Ever.
One by one the kids he had invited came in.
"Happy Birthday, Roy!" they shouted. Max was
nowhere to be seen.

After a while, Roy began to enjoy himself - 
a little.
"I'm still having the worst birthday ever," 
Roy mumbled under his breath.

Then a voice that Roy knew shouted, "Happy
Birthday, pal! Sorry we're late!" There stood Max,
grinning from ear to ear. Roy was confused.
"Why didn't you play with me at school today?"
Roy asked. "Why did you try to spoil my birthday?"

"Look at this," Max said.
Max had made the biggest birthday card Roy
had ever seen. It was big as Roy. Roy just
stood there, his mouth wide open.
"Wow!" said Roy. "That's really cool!"

"I couldn't come out and play with you
because I was making this," said Max proudly as
he pointed to the card. "Boy, was it hard! Billy
and Andrew helped a little," he added. "I wanted
the card to be a surprise. I'm sorry you felt I
was trying to spoil your birthday."

"So we're still best pals?" asked Roy.
"You bet!" said Max.
"This is the best birthday ever!" said Roy in
his loudest voice.