Books Are No Fun!

I Just Want to Play.
"I don't want to read any more," Bobby said. He
pushed the book he was reading off his lap.
Dad looked at Bobby with wide eyes. "What's the
matter?" he asked.

"Books are boring, boring, boring!" Bobby cried.
"I don't want to read," he continue. "I want to
play outside. I want to talk to my friends. Reading
is so boring."
"Maybe you just haven't found the right book
yet," Dad said.

"That's not it," Bobby said. "I think all books
are boring. I wish I could just play all day."

Dad did not know how to tell Bobby that 
reading can be fun.

Dad had an idea. "Come on, Bobby, let's go."
"Where?" asked Bobby.
"You'll see."

At the Library.
The librarian looked up and smiled. "Can I 
help you?" she asked.
"I have a problem," Dad said. "Bobby here
thinks reading is boring."
"Oh dear," said the librarian. She looked from
Dad to Bobby. Bobby just shrugged.

"I'm sorry you feel that way," the librarian
said to Bobby. "There are so many books here that
are not boring. Some are exciting, and some are
full of great and beautiful things. Some are sad,
and some are funny."

Bobby said, "Fun is when you laugh and have a
good time. Books can't make you have fun!"

The librarian looked at Bobby. "I think you're 
wrong about books," she said. "Come with me and
I'll show you." She led Bobby to the shelves. "What
kind of book would you like to try?" she asked.
"No book," said Bobby.

The librarian took down a blue book. "This is
a good book," she said.
Bobby opened it up. "This has too many
words," he said. He handed the book back to her.

The librarian was not ready to give up. "We 
will just have to try something else," she said.
She took a different book from the shelf. "This is
about Wild Bill. It's set in the Old West."
Bobby said, "No thanks, the Old West doesn't
interest me."

"Well, you can't go to the moon ... except in
books." The librarian pulled down a green book.
"I have books with astronauts and animals and
heroes and soccer players. I have stories about
things that never happened and never will. I have
stories of doctors and presidents and knights, too."

The librarian turned and looked Bobby right in
the eyes. "Bobby," she said, "just give books a chance!
Who knows? If you read more, then you might write
more. If you wrote more, then you might even write
your own books! And if you wrote your own books,
they would not be boring."
Bobby's face lit up.

"Do you really think I could write my own
book?" Bobby asked his dad.
"I know you can. You might even write a very
good book," his dad said.
Bobby took the green book from the shelf.
"Let's go to the moon."
