A Day at the Paper Plane Factory.

At Home.
When I wake on Monday morning,
My two dogs bark out a warning.

Spanky says, "Arf!" as I try to sleep.
Sam says, "Woof!" with the clock's beep-beep.

It's into the kitchen for our morning treat.
They like theirs crunchy. I like mine sweet.
Sam wants a pickle, Spanky a bone.
I spoon out nuts on an ice cream cone.

Time to get dressed and out of the house.
I wear pants with a purple blouse.
Spanky sports a tie and a cute striped hat.
Sam wears sunglasses. She's funny like that.

Driving to work is a very big deal.
Spanky's in back, and Sam steers the wheel.
We see lots of friends on the way there -
Maggie the duck and Lazlo the bear.

We come to the office at the end of the lane -
A funny old place where we make paper planes.
I sit at the desk. I crease and I fold
I make as many as one box will hold.

I work on the planes. The dogs run around.
Making hot coffee and sniffing the ground.
Spanky is dancing and shows me a twirl.
Sam sits at the window, watching a squirrel,

We work until noon, and then we have lunch -
Sandwiches, apples, and fruity fruit punch.
We sit outside. The sun shines our way.
Eating again, enjoying this day.

I munch on an apple and crunch on a carrot.
Spanky doesn't like ham and decides to wear it.
We eat for a while and finish each scrap.
Then we lie down and have a quick nap.

Back in the office, I fold and I crease.
Then it's up to the roof with my paper plane fleet.
I sail them off, and they float down below.
The dogs are outside, watching the show.

The planes circle, loop, and swirl to the ground.
The dogs try to catch them, those silly hounds.
We test them and check them to see how thy fly.
The dogs down below, me up near the sky.

The dogs run around, chasing each other.
Spanky trips on his tie and tries to recover.
Sam follows a mouse who runs into his hole.
Spanky leaps in the air and lands in a roll.

I call them to come, and we're ready to go.
Sam drives by the places we know.
At home we make dinner, all kinds of things.
Bean sprouts, peppers, and donut rings.

We sit at the table, eating our food,
Hungry and happy and in a good mood.
We had a great day, my dogs and I.
We worked and we played, and watched
the planes fly!

