The Overholts.

Good Night, Sun.
Most folks in Lowell knew the Overhots.
They lived in an old stone bungalow on Grove
Road, one of Lowell's most charming homes.

Moe Overholt wrote poetry and owned a
fabric store named So What. Flo Overholt was
devoted to her rose beds. Little Joe Overholt
rode a skateboard like a pro and hardly ever
groaned about his chores. And Joan Overholt
did not mope or scream "Live me alone" or
stay on the phone too long. Overall, the
Overholts seemed perfectly - well, normal.

So it might surprise you to know that the
Overholts did everything topsy-turvy.

Today, like every day, the Overholt children rose
before the alarm went off. They put on their
pajamas and bathrobes and marched in to dinner.
"Eat more slowly, you'll be late for school," Mrs.
Overholt advised.

"No," said Joan. "I won't."
"That's a good girl," said Mrs. Overholt happily.
"Well, I will," said Joe.
"Do as your mom asks," said Mr. Overholt.

"Okay, Dad," Joe said.
Mrs. Overholt ruffled Joe's hair and kissed his
forehead.
"That's good," she said. "So, more roast?"

"Do we have any bones?" asked Mr. Overholt.
"Or only meat? I hope you haven't thrown the 
bones to Rover."
"Oh, no!" chuckled Mrs. Overholt. "Rover only
gets meat! The bones go to my darling, devoted
family. We can thank Rover for getting rid of the
meat for us."

"You're perfectly right, dear," said Mr. Overholt.
He poked his head under the table. "More?" he
asked Rover. "More rib roast?"
Ever so slowly, Rover crept out. Then he rolled
over and played dead, holding the pose for the
whole rest of the day.

Those Overholts!
Joe and Joan Overholt left their home together, as
they did most days. "Open the door behind you!"
Mrs. Overholt yelled from the kitchen.
"Hello, kids! It's so nice to see you!" yelled Mr.
Overholt from the driveway.

Mr. and Mrs. Lopez were seeing little Jose off to
school. Jose waved to them, but they were far more
interested in the goings-on at the Overholts' home.

"Those Overholts!" Mrs. Lopez sighed, shaking
her head. "Nicest family around, only -"
"I know, dear," said her husband.
"If only I -"
"I know, dear," said her husband.
"But, they're very -"
"You're so right, dear," said her husband.

Just then Moe Overholt poked his head out and
yelled, "Isn't it a fine day for a boat ride? Will you
go rowing with us on the lake?"
"We'd love to," replied Mrs. Lopez quickly, "but
this is a work day for us. Don't you and Mrs.
Overholt work, too? What will happen if that place
of yours is not open - So What?"
"That's how we feel," said Mr. Overholt.

So Mr. and Mrs. Overholt went to the lake alone.
They each grabbed an oar and rowed their boat
until the low sun told them it was time to go. Joe
and Joan were waiting at home.

After eating eggs and toast, they put on 
their clothes and went to bed.