Night Sights.

Night Sights.
Friday night, there was an exciting sight!
What a sight, that Friday night!
We ran and ran with all our might
to see the sight on Friday night.

Mom, Mike, Dinah, Simon, and I went
to the field so we could spy ...
a place where lights lit up the sky!
Ran so fast, nearly passed it by.

The lights did shine in the night sky.
And we saw rides that we could try.
Dinah and Simon and Mike and I
saw lots of rides high in the sky.

"You can go on that ride," Mom said to me.
We went on the ride, as high as could be.
The ride was exciting. The ride was fun.
Then the ride stopped. And the ride was done.

At the fair, that night, we saw many more sights.

And then it was time to say good night!

The Next Night.
The Friday night sights were such a delight
we decided to go back the very next night!
We ran and ran with all our might
to see the sights the very next night.

Mike and Dinah and Simon and I
went with my mom so we could spy ...
the place where lights lit up the sky!
We ran so fast. But did we pass it by?

No! There were no sights that night, and no rides in sight!
Friday night was the very last night!
"So what do we do?" said Mike to me.
"There are no rides to ride and no sights to see!"

"Mike is right," said Dinah. And Simon agreed.
We looked at each other. We were sad indeed.
Then I said, "Here is what we can do!
We can go to Ike's for pie and ice cream, too!"

So we all ran to Ike's. We got there by nine.
We petted Ike's cat, Linus, while we waited in line.
That night turned out well, the night turned out right,
And I decided to get the Butterscotch Delight!

Not all nights are lit up with sights in the sky.
Some nights are nice with ice cream and pie.
Some night's there's a cat and some nights
there's a ride.
But all nights are fun with your pals by your side.

Not all nights are lit up with sights in the sky.
Some nights are nice with ice cream and pie.
Some night's there's a cat and some nights there's a ride.
But all nights are fun with your pals by your side. 
