The Blue Tie.

Where Is That Tie?
One Tuesday in June, Grandpa Mooney was
hunting for his blue tie. First, he tried the closet,
but the tie wasn't there. Then he tried his dresser,
but the tie wasn't there. He even tried underneath
the bed, but the blue tie was still missing.

This was a huge problem for Grandpa Mooney.
The tie was a gift from his grandson, Stew. Every
Tuesday afternoon, Stew came over to see the
game on TV. Grandpa Mooney wore the blue tie.
It was good luck.

"Hmmm. Last week I spilled root beer on the tie.
Maybe Stew took it to be cleaned," said Grandpa
Mooney to himself. "Stew likes to do nice things
like that."

"I know," said Grandpa Mooney, "I'll ask
Stew's sister, Sue. Maybe she knows. I just hope
that Sue picks up the phone. I'd rather not tell
Stew that I lost the lucky tie just yet."
Grandpa Mooney phoned Stew's house.
Sue picked up right away.
"Whew!" said Grandpa Mooney. "I'm glad it's
you. Do you know whether Stew took my blue 
tie to be cleaned?"

"No, he didn't," said Sue. "Stew had to take
things to the cleaner for Mom and he didn't 
have the blue tie when he went."
"Thanks, Sue," said Grandpa. "I hope to see
you soon," he added.

"It must be here somewhere," Grandpa
Mooney muttered to himself. He tried every
room in his house. He went into the attic and
under the roof beams. He glanced inside his
huge tuba. He even looked in his new boots.
But there was still no lucky blue tie.

Grandpa Mooney began to brood. "Where is 
that tie?" he asked himself.

He was so pooped from his hunt that he
decided to sit for a bit. Soon, he was napping.

Time to Tell the Truth!
Late in the afternoon, Grandpa Mooney woke up.
"Oh, no!" he said, "Stew will be here soon. It is
too late to do anything about it. I will just have to
tell him that I lost the lucky tie."

Grandpa Mooney was not in a good mood.
He didn't like to hurt Stew's feelings. When
Stew knocked, Grandpa Mooney gloomily
opened the door.
"I'm sorry I'm late," said Stew. "We had
better hurry. The game will be on soon."

Stew went into the living room and turned 
on the TV. Grandpa Mooney went to the 
kitchen and fixed a tray of snack foods.
"Hurry up, Grandpa. You are going to miss
the first pitch," yelled Stew.

There was nothing left to do. Grandpa
Mooney simply had to tell Stew the bad news.
He went to the living room and placed the
tray of food on the table.
"Wait!" said Stew. "Grandpa Mooney, where's
the blue tie? We can't see a game without the
lucky blue tie."

Grandpa Mooney's face got red and hot. "Well,"
he said to Stew as he unbuttoned his sweater,
"you see ... I ... um ...."

"There it is!" said Stew. "I knew you wouldn't
forget!"
When Grandpa Mooney looked, he saw that
the blue tie was right there on his neck. He
looked back up at Stew and smiled.
"Here," he said, handing Stew the tray, "have a
root beer and a few macaroons."
