Mee-Ling and the Dragon.

A Dry, Dry Land.
Once upon a time, in a land far away, there lived a
girl named Mee-Ling. She lived with her mother and her
father, who were very poor. Indeed, the whole town
was very poor. It had not rained in a long time. The
land was dry. The crops drooped in the dry, dry soil.

And that was not all. The town lived in fear of
a huge dragon who lived at the top of the
mountain. The dragon breathed smoky flames and
made fearful sounds. Mothers and fathers told
their children, "Never go near the dragon!"

Now, one day, when Mee-Ling's birthday was
drawing near, her mother and father said to her,
"Poor as we are, we wish you to have a fine, big
party. You may ask anyone you please."

Mee-Ling said, "I'll ask all my family and friends, 
and I will ask the dragon, too!" And she ran out of
the house and started up the mountain.
"Come back, foolish girl!" her mother hollered.
"The dragon will eat you!"

But Mee-Ling did not care. She went part way up the
mountain. She could hear the dragon bellowing a
fearful song.
"Alone I live, alone I roar!
I am a dragon evermore!"
Mee-Ling ran back down to her house in fear.
"I hope you have learned your lesson," said her father.

The next day, Mee-Ling's mother said, "Your
birthday list is almost complete. Is there anyone else
you wish to add?"
"I wish to add the dragon," said Mee-Ling, and she
started up the mountain.
"Come back, silly girl!" hollered her father. "The
dragon will knock you over with his thumping,
bumping tail!"

But Mee-Ling did not care. Again she went up
the mountain. This time she went farther, until she
could see the huge dragon as he bellowed his song.
"Alone I live, alone I cry.
Friendless and sad until I die."
Red-hot stones shot from the dragon's mouth.
Mee-Ling turned and ran back home.
"I hope you've learned your lesson,"
said her mother.

Now it was Mee-Ling's birthday, and all was ready
for her party.
"Poor as we are, your friends and family have a
few small gifts for you on this day. A little rice from
the dry soil, a few seeds from the dry trees. Is there
anything else you wish for your birthday?"
Mee-Ling's mother asked.

"Yes, I wish to ask the dragon to my party,"
Mee-Ling said, and she started up the mountain.
Her parents called her back. Her friends
begged her, "Go no farther!"
But on Mee-Ling went, until she reached the
top of the mountain.

At the Top.
The rocks and trees shook with the dragon's song,
and from his throat came dry, hot dust.
"Alone I live. Who dares come near?
Who can break this curse of fear?"
Mee-Ling was very scared, and she was about to run
down the mountain, like all the other times. Then, the
fear was replaced with another feeling. She began to
feel pity for the lonely dragon. So, she gathered all the
courage she could and spoke in the bravest voice she
could. "You are indeed a fearful beast. But I have come
to invite you to my party," she said.

The dragon stopped roaring.
"Never before in all my life has anyone dared
to speak to me," he said. "You are indeed a brave
child, and a kind one, too! Get up on my back,
Mee-Ling, and we shall go to your party together."

Mee-Ling got up on the dragon's back, and the
dragon began making his way down the mountain.
Behind him, his long, blue tail cut a path through
the dry, rocky ground.
And as the dragon and Mee-Ling walked down
the mountain, a cool and deep blue river began to 
flow after them. The dragon and Mee-Ling drifted 
on it into the town.

Forever after, the river flowed down the 
mountain and through the town. The crops had
water to grow. The town was never poor again.

As for the dragon, he became a welcome visitor in
the town. And as for Mee-Ling, she had the best
birthday party ever.
And once every year after that, on her birthday,
her friends and family told the story of the brave girl,
Mee-Ling, and the dragon, who together saved
the town.
