A Great American: A School Essay.

My name is Pearl, and I am thirteen
years old. I want to tell you about a
man who is a great American. His
name is Jon Birkin, and he is my father.
His work takes him all around the world.
He is an expert on money and the best
ways to manage it. He meets with the
heads of big companies, and they always
listen to what he has to say.
But when he is at home, he's just
plain Dad to my brother Jerry and me.
Dad loves to cook and surprises us with
strange dishes he has learned to make.
He helps us with our homework (he's
really good at math). And he and my
mom go out to dance one night a week.
They call it their "twirling time."
When he was little, though, things
were not so good. His family was
extremely poor. There were times when
they did not have enough food to eat.
My dad had to go to work when he was
really young to help feed his family.
His first job was stocking shelves in a
store near his home. He would come
home after school, do his homework, and
run off to the store. Then he would work
there until it closed at around nine or
ten at night.
My dad learned early that it paid to
be a good worker. His boss was glad to
have him, and this made his mother and
father so proud. They both had jobs, too,
but their pay was not very high. You see,
they had come here from Russia when
they were both in their teens. They were
poor and had not had much schooling.
This was why they couldn't find great
jobs. But they were still really glad that
they had come to America. They were
grateful to be in a free country. They
felt that they did not need to have a big
house and fine things to be happy.
My grandfather always wished that
he had gone further in school and
been better trained for life. He sent my
father and his younger sister to school.
He made it clear to them that it was a
privilege to go to school in America.
He wanted his children to have the best.
He was very firm that they should finish
high school so that they could get better
jobs than his.
My dad was a quick learner and did
well in school. He respected his teachers,
and they respected him. Sometimes
he would have to stay up late after he
got home from his job to finish his
schoolwork. He made no excuses that he
had to work to help his family, and he
did not let himself think about quitting.
He felt he was lucky to have a good
after school job and a nice boss.
At the end of high school, my dad was
ranked tenth in his class! He wanted to
go to college but felt that he should wait
until he had enough money to pay his way
through. But then a teacher told him about
a fund that was set up to help kids like
him, who had high grades but not much
money. Dad told his mother and father
about the fund. They could not believe it.
"America!" his father had exclaimed."It
really is the land of freedom!"
With the help of this fund and a gift
from his boss, my dad went on to college
and did well. But he always pays tribute
to the people who had helped him   his
mom and dad, his teachers, and his boss.
He always gives money to help others
in need. He has also set up a college
fund like the one that helped him so
that other poor young people can go to
college too.
I am proud of my dad. I hope
someday to make him proud of me. By
the way, here is a note my dad gave me
after he read this essay.

Dear Pearl,

I have just finished reading your
essay. Your wonderful words made my
day. And let me tell you something   I
am already proud of you!

Love, Dad