The Badger.

Where It Lives.
Badgers can be found in many places.
You will find them most often in Britain
and in North America. They often live
surprisingly near the center of cities.
Badgers are rarely seen because of
their nocturnal habits. It is extremely
rare for a badger to be seen during the
daylight. Badgers come out during the
long nights of fall and winter, one hour
after sunset. They come out earlier in
the summer.
If there is any disturbance, unlikely
sound, or smell, the badger may stay
underground for the night. Badgers often
fail to come out of their holes on bright,
moonlit nights.
Badger holes are easy to distinguish
from the dwellings of foxes and rabbits
by their big size and the mass of earth
and stones that lie at the entrance. Near
the entrance there may be scratching
posts, where badgers stand on their hind
legs and scratch the trunk of a tree.
Around the mouth of the badger hole
and along the paths leading to it will be
fresh plants that have been collected for
bedding. The badger gathers these with
its forelegs and shuffles back, leaving a
trail of plants. Badgers are very clean
animals because they change their
bedding often.

What It Looks Like.
Some badgers have a gray body
with black and white stripes on the
head. People might think that the
stripes help it hide from its enemies at
night because they look like beams of
moonlight coming through the trees.
Yet badgers seldom come out in moonlight,
and when they do, they stand out like
a sore thumb. White objects will stand
out if there is the slightest bit of light in
the night.
Other people think that the black
and white stripes are colors that signal
danger. Many animals that can be
dangerous have colors like this. The
skunk, with its terrible smell, has a
band of white along the head and back
and a bushy white tail. Bees and wasps
have colors of black and yellow. Other
animals learn to think of these colors as
unpleasant and will leave them alone.
When the badger becomes frightened,
it makes a sound that could scare the
paint off a wall. Then it bristles, the
hair of the body standing on end, so
that it looks twice its size, almost like it
was struck by lightning. It looks quite
"shocking."

What It Eats.

Badgers are flesh eaters, and when
you look at a badger's skull, you can see
an animal that is made to attack and eat
another very big animal. Its teeth are
strong, and there are long ridges around
the hinges of the jaws that keep the
teeth from breaking. Yet badgers live on
a wide range of soft food. Earthworms
are eaten the most, as are young rabbits.
Mice, voles, moles, frogs, snails,
beetles, hedgehogs, and wasps make up
the animal content that badgers eat.
Apples, bulbs, blackberries, and grass are
also eaten. Crops suffer when badgers
flatten stalks to get to the ears of corn.
Chicken killing sometimes occurs, but
it is not typical. Badgers have sometimes
been found in hen houses with none of
the inhabitants disturbed.
What badgers eat differs with the
season and the weather. On wet nights,
badgers will go to fields to feed on
earthworms, and mother badgers with
little ones who drink her milk will eat
little else but earthworms.
Badgers have little to fear except
humans, who in past times trapped
them for fun. Today, they are often
hit by cars. They suffer from rabbit
clearance, too. People gas places where
rabbits live and, without intending to,
also kill the badgers.