Deserts of the World.

A desert is a place where there is ten
or less inches of rainfall or snowfall per
year. This makes a desert a very dry
place. It is also very cold or very hot,
depending on the desert.
Some deserts, given the name
cold deserts, are always extremely cold.
Their summer temperatures range
from 10 to 50 F in summer and from
50 to 10 F in winter. Such deserts,
found in and around the North and
South Poles, get almost no snow at all.
On much of this chilly desert land,
ice is present all year round. No plant
or animal life can be found here.
But on the edges of the ice packed land,
some insects and plants have found a way
to live. Midges, lice, mites, and ticks live
on the outer edges of cold deserts, along
with simple plants such as mosses.
Hot deserts, on the other hand, tend
to be more than 75 F in the shade during
the day. And out in the sun, they may
sizzle at daytime temperatures as high
as 130 F. But temperatures in a hot
desert may still be cold at night or in the
winter. As with cold deserts, there's little
water for plants and animals to thrive,
yet hot deserts are not at all lifeless.

Many interesting plants and animals
have learned to adapt to the heat and
lack of rain. Some plants, like the acacia
tree, solve the problem by sending roots
deep into the earth to reach ground
water. Acacia roots may be more than
100 feet long. Other plants, like cactuses,
have little roots that quickly soak up
any water that falls and store it for later
use. Cactus plants also have leaves in the
shape of thin spines, which keep water
from being lost to the air. These prickly
spines also keep away desert animals
looking for plants to nibble on.
Some desert plants choose to wait for 
the rain that falls once in a great while.
They may dry up above ground, while
their roots stay alive under the ground, 
waiting for rain. Or their seeds will sit in 
the earth during dry spells, waiting for 
the rain to make them sprout. As soon as
the rainwater is gone, they become seeds
again, waiting for the next rain.
Since a desert doesn't get much water,
many desert animals don't drink water
at all. Instead, they get all their water
from the foods they eat. Others can go
without food and water for many days.
A well fed camel, for example, can go
without water for more than two weeks.
The food it eats is turned into fat and
stored in its hump. During the time it
goes without water, the camel uses the
fat that is stored in its hump as a way to
get the water it needs.
Find out more about the plants
and animals that live in the desert.
You might read books about the desert.
Or you might choose to look up desert
in an encyclopedia, which will also give
you the names of different deserts of
the world. Or you may choose to use a
computer to help you find out more.
You can search online for any desert
that you would like to learn more about.

