If You Can't Say Something Nice.

There was a very old man named
Mr. Joe Meany who always told people
exactly what was on his mind. He never
stopped to think about how the other
person might feel about what he said.
He took great pride in speaking out.

He would often say, "I'm proud to speak
my mind. I'm not afraid to say what I
think. I always tell the truth!"

Behind his back, people would whisper,
"Speaking your mind is no excuse for
being rude. Sometimes it's better to be
kind than to speak the truth."

One day, as Mr. Meany was walking
through town, he stopped at Mrs. Coe's
house.

"Good day to you," he said.

Mrs. Coe, who was pulling a hoe
through her flowerbeds, looked up with
a sinking heart. She didn't like listening
to Mr. Meany go on, but she didn't want
to be rude to the old man. So she smiled
and said, "Good day, Mr. Meany."

"I see you are hoeing," said Mr. Meany.

"Yes," Mrs. Coe responded, trying to
be nice. "I am weeding my flower beds. It's
been a long time since I've had a chance
to work in the beds. As you can see, the
weeds have grown more than my flowers."

"You can say that again," exclaimed Mr. Meany.
He shook his head.
"You're an expert at growing weeds!
Why, I don't see a single flower in
bloom. It really is quite a mess!"

Mrs. Coe slumped against a tree.
At first, she just felt bad, but slowly she
got angry. In her mind she was thinking,
"My weeds are nothing compared to the
big patch of crabgrass that you are!"

She didn't say anything to Mr. Meany, of
course. She just went back to hoeing the
flowerbed.

Mr. Meany frowned. He waited for
Mrs. Coe to say something. When she
didn't, he sighed and said, "Good day,
Mrs. Coe."

"Good day, Mr. Meany," Mrs. Coe
said. Then she turned around and
scowled.

Mr. Meany came upon Jon Yee, who was in his driveway, washing his jeep.

"Well, I'm glad to see you're washing
that pile of dirt at last," said Mr. Meany.
"It's about time!"

Jon just kept on working. He hadn't
had a chance to wash the jeep since
he'd come back from camping in the
backwoods. Jon was too angry to explain
this fact to the old man. Mr. Meany
waited for Jon to tell him about his
camping trip. He was surprised when
Jon treated him so coldly.

"What's bothering him?" wondered
Mr. Meany as he went on his way. "I
just told him that he was doing the
right thing, washing his jeep, but he
won't speak to me. What a grouch!"

Just then, Mr. Meany ran into
Mrs. Mendez. She was out walking
her French poodle. She was wearing a
pair of doeskin gloves that her husband
had given her as a birthday present.

Mrs. Mendez loved the feel of the soft
leather on her hand. "These are such
nice gloves," she was thinking. "I can tell
they cost a lot, too." She was touched
that her husband had given her such a
thoughtful gift.

"I see you are wearing doeskin
gloves," said Mr. Meany.

Mrs. Mendez looked up quickly. She
had been so last in daydreaming that she
had not seen the old man.

"Yes," she said shyly. "I just got them
from my husband. I really love them."

"Well, it's beyond me how anyone
could love something made from a sweet
little animal. That's right, doeskin is the skin of a female deer. I think it's terrible that people wear animal skin  or fur for that matter. How would you like it
if I had a poodle coat made from your
poodle?" shouted Mr. Meany.

Mrs. Mendez looked at Mr. Meany in
shock. She dropped her gloves and ran
home, pulling her poodle behind her.
She was angry at Mr. Meany, but she did
not know why. And then it hit her  Mr.
Meany had been wearing leather shoes.

"Leather is made from animal skin,"
she said to herself, with an angry shake
of her head. "The nerve of that man! He
just likes to hear himself talk. He doesn't
care what he says!"

Mr. Meany watched Mrs. Mendez
rush off up the street. He wondered why
she dropped her gloves. He picked them
up and said to himself, "I'll give them to
her tomorrow when I go to her house to
ask her to give money to the zoo. She'll
be glad to see me and her gloves."

Mr. Meany went on his merry way.
Many people crossed the street to walk
on the other side, so they didn't have to
deal with Mr. Meany. "My, my," he said
to himself. "The people in this town
sure are rude! Why do they treat me
so badly? Why can't they stop and have
a nice chat? My, my, my. Woe is me."

All the way home, Mr. Meany kept
muttering to himself and shaking his head.

When he got home, he went into the
den and sat down to read. In the hall,
his wife tiptoed past. She had just gotten
a haircut and was not in the mood to
hear what her husband had to say about
it. Although she loved her husband and
knew he meant well, it wasn't always easy
living with a person like him. She wished
that somehow, long ago, someone had
told little Joe Meany, "If you can't say
something nice, don't say anything at all."

