The Ugly Buckling.

Early one spring morning, a doe
named Molly cuddled beside a buck
named Morton. Molly had just given
birth to two little ones . . . no, wait,
three little ones!

"That's funny," Molly said sleepily to
Morton. "I don't remember a third one
being born. Do you?"

"There were just two when I went off
to get some food for you," said Morton.
"But there are three now. And the last
one born is a big one, too!"

Molly roused herself and licked the
young ones clean and dry. Strangely,
she found that the third one was clean
and dry already. Morton helped her hide
all three in the tall grass under some
bushes. The young ones would stay there
for the first weeks of their lives, hidden
away from hunters, with Molly nearby to
feed them and to keep danger away.

As time went by, the three became
stronger and more steady on their feet.
Molly and Morton were watching them
one day and talking.

"It's odd how our little buck is so
much bigger than the two does. He is at
least a head taller," said Molly. "Look at
the size of his ears. And that nose!"

"He doesn't take after anyone in my
family," said Morton, as he shook his head.

"Nor mine!" said Molly. "In fact, he
doesn't look like any white tailed deer
I've ever seen before!"

"And listen to that funny grunting
sound he makes," Morton added. "You'd
think he was a mule deer."

"Well . . . he's ours," said Molly. "And
I, far one, am glad to have him!"

"So am I!" Morton agreed proudly.

More time went by. Molly and Morton
couldn't help seeing how different Morris
was from his twin sisters. His coat was
plain brown, without the white spots
that the girls sported on their backs. The
twins loved to romp and play together.

But Morris would go off by himself.

The rest of the forest animals could
see how different Morris was, too.
They teased him.

"Morris, your white spots must be
dirty. I can't see them."

"Morris, you're bigger than a mule deer."

"Morris, you must be eating up the
entire forest!"

His sisters were no help. They teased
him, too. "Morris, Morris, there's more
of you than both of us!" they would
shout at him.

Morris would not get mad. He would
just shrug his big shoulders, shake his
big head, and lumber off into the forest.

One day, he stopped at the water hole
and looked into the water. He saw a huge
ugly beast that didn't look at all like
its father or mother. He felt sad and
very alone.

Two years went by. The twins were
ready to go off on their own, but not
Morris. Big as he was, he wasn't ready
to leave home. After the twins had
left to find mates, Morris lumbered
around, munched on tree leaves, or went
swimming in the river.

Morris was neither happy nor
unhappy; he just was.

Then, something strange began to
happen. The two bumps on his head
began to grow and grow and grow.

They formed two huge, wonderful
antlers. One day, Morris happened to
catch sight of himself in the water again.
He was stunned at the change. The big
antlers fit with his big ears and big nose.
Why, he looked handsome, if he did say
so himself!

From then on, the animals in the
forest treated him differently. They
began calling him Morris the Mighty.

It made Molly and Morton proud to see
how special Morris was. When the twins
came with their mates, they no longer
teased their brother.

Morris may have looked powerful and
mighty. But he was still kind and gentle.

One spring morning in the third year
of his life, Morris was drinking from the
river when a low grunting sound made
him look up. There, across the river,
was the most lovely creature Morris had
ever seen. Without thinking, he began
to swim across the water. He wanted to
be with her, more than anything he'd
ever wanted before. The lovely animal
watched him. She did not run away.

As Morris came out of the water,
something burst forth from the forest
and blocked his path. Morris was stunned.
For a minute, he thought he was staring
at himself. Were his eyes playing tricks
on him? This beast looked exactly like
him, but it was full of rage! It bellowed
and bucked Morris with its antlers.

For the first time in his life, Morris
was angry. He was sure, though he
didn't know why, that this beast wanted
to take the lovely animal away from
him. Morris could not let that happen.
He bellowed loudly and put his head
down to fight back.

A crowd gathered. They had heard
the loud bellowing. They all cheered
for Morris. 

"Go, Morris, go! You are so brave!
You are the stronger one! Go, Morris!"
Morris's family was there to cheer
Morris on as well. "Fight the stranger!"
they cried. "This is your forest! He does
not belong here!"

Morris felt stronger than he ever had
before. He pushed back, back, back.
Before long, the other beast gave in.
"You are the stronger moose," it said,
panting for breath.

"What?" Morris gasped. "Did you say
moose? Am I a moose?"
The female moose spoke up. "My
name is Lorraine. I think I know who
you are. Are you the moose that lives
with a family of white tailed deer?"

Molly and Morton responded, "Yes!"
they said. "We are his family!"

"I have heard about you," said
Lorraine. She smiled at Morris. "Your
moose mother was ill. She left you with
these deer before she went off to die."

Molly went up to Morris and gave
him a nuzzle. "It's time for you to leave,"
she whispered.

Morton came up and gave Morris a
little push. "It's time for you to make a
family of your own," he said gently.

Morris the Mighty Moose, as he was
now known, stepped forth with his bride,
Lorraine. And he was never lonely again!