The Butterfly and the Moth.

The butterfly, like its cousin the moth,
is easily spotted by its lovely wings,
which are covered with very small scales.
If you handle a butterfly, you will see
"dust" from its wings on your fingers.
The dust is, in fact, thousands of these
scales. The Latin name for butterfly
means "wings with scales."
A butterfly is an insect. It begins its
life as a small egg. The eggs are laid in
a place that gets a good deal of sunshine.
The creature that hatches from
the egg doesn't look at all like
the grownup insect it becomes.
It hatches into a caterpillar.
It eats as much food as it can and then
surrounds itself in silk so that it becomes
a chrysalis. The chrysalis hatches, and
out comes a butterfly. Some butterflies
spend the winter as a chrysalis and then
come out as an adult butterfly in the
warmer weather.
The butterfly feeds on nectar from
flowers. The butterfly has a sucking tube
in its mouth. It is very long and flexible
and can reach right down to the bottom
of the flower. The butterfly sucks up
the nectar with this tube. When the
butterfly has eaten, this tube rolls up
under its head. To make the tube stick
out again, the butterfly pumps blood
into it so it uncurls.
Although a moth and a butterfly
look alike in many ways, you can
tell them apart. For one thing, most
butterflies are out during the day,
fluttering from flower to flower to feed.
Most moths, on the other hand,
come out at night.
A moth is likely to be plump and furry,
while a butterfly is slim and hairless.
Both insects have a pair of long feelers on
the tops of their heads, called antennae.
A butterfly's antennae are long and slender,
with little bulbs at the ends. But most
moth antennae are hairlike and feathery,
and don't have little bulbs at the ends.
A simple way to tell a moth from
a butterfly, though, is by looking at
how the insect holds its wings. When
a butterfly rests on a flower, it tends to
hold its wings up. When a moth rests
on your bedroom window, it tends to
spread its wings out flat.