The Loris.

The loris is a little animal that lives
in the forests of other countries. The
loris belongs to an order of animals that
includes apes and monkeys.
Most lorises are gray or brown and
grow to be 8 - 10 inches long. They have
round heads, but their faces have an odd
shape, with three corners. The bottom
corner is at their chin. Next to the top
two corners are their big round eyes.
These huge eyes help frighten away
predators that might try to catch a loris.
The loris lives alone most of the time.
It is a nocturnal animal. This means that
it hunts at night. The loris feeds on fruit,
insects, young birds, and birds' eggs.
In the morning, the loris is ready to
sleep. It clasps its feet around the branch
of a tree and rolls its body into a ball.

There are two kinds of lorises in Asia:
the slender loris and the slow, or gray,
loris. Best known is the slender loris.
It has no tail and is about 8 - 10 inches
long. It moves about on long, thin legs.
The slender loris has short, rounded ears
that are almost completely hidden in its
thick, brown, woolly fur. Its big eyes have
a border of black patches.
The slender loris lives in bushes
or in the lower branches of trees.
On the ground, the animal walks like a
monkey, but very slowly. When feeding,
the slender loris creeps up on its prey
and eats up the entire animal. This means
it eats the horny wings of beetles, as well
as the bones and feathers of birds.

The slow, or gray, loris is about 16 
inches long. It has a very short tail and 
thick, woolly, silver gray fur. During the 
day, the slow loris sleeps in the fork of 
a tree. Nearly helpless on the ground, it 
rarely comes down from the treetops. 

There are many legends about lorises.
Because their huge eyes glow like torches
in the night, some people think they are
ghosts up in the trees. Because they may
hide their heads in their hands, some
people think that lorises can see ghosts.

Those who sail across the sea might want
to take a slow loris with them. Some
people believe that with a slow loris on
board, the wind will stay fresh and keep
the ship sailing swiftly across the sea.

The Loris
I'm a loris,
You can plainly see.
So don't mistake me
For an ape, a person, or a monkey.
Although I'm slow and roam at night,
Don't let my glowing, big eyes
Give you a fright,
For I'm not a ghost as some may say.
I prowl slowly at night as I sleep
during the day.