Can Turkeys Fly?

The animal kingdom is a wonderful place to explore. But how much do you really know about animals? Here are some fun facts.
What is the tallest animal on Earth?
That honor belongs to the giraffe. At up to 18 feet tall, the giraffe towers over the next tallest animal, which is the elephant. A giraffe's legs alone can be six feet tall!
Of course, we know giraffes by their long necks. Male giraffes stretch their necks up to eat the leaves on trees. Most female giraffes lean down to eat the leaves on ground shrubs.
Do butterflies fly south for the winter?
Just like many birds, some butterflies take to the sky once the weather up north turns colder.
Each fall, the monarch butterfly journeys south where the female  will lay her eggs. Many of the adults do not live to make the trip back the next spring. However, their little ones hatch and begin the trek north with the rest of the clan.

Donkey or mule which is which?
These animals look a lot alike. A donkey has longer ears and a smaller body than a horse. A mule is the offspring of a male donkey and a female horse. Like its father, a mule has long ears. Like its mother, a mule has a large, full body.
Are wolves really big and bad?
If you are a wolf's prey, such as a deer or an elk, then wolves are quite bad. But despite what you have read in folktales, wolves stay away from people. They enjoy hanging out with their pack instead.
Monkey Or ape which is which?
The next time you visit the zoo, hang around with the chimps. You might hear someone say, "Hey, look at the cute monkeys!" But chimps are not monkeys. They are apes.
People confuse apes and monkeys all the time. Apes, such as gorillas, do not have tails. Apes can also almost stand up. Most monkeys, on the other hand, have tails, and they cannot walk upright.
Buffalo or bison which is which?
The large, shaggy beast found on the plains of western North America is sometimes called a buffalo. It is not a buffalo, however, but a bison.
At 12 feet long and 6 feet tall, a full grown male bison can be as heavy as 2,000 pounds. A buffalo is a smaller, lighter animal.
Can cats swim?
Anyone with a cat knows that most cats do not like to take baths.
However, the tiger, the largest member of the cat family, is an excellent swimmer and does not mind going for a dip from time to time.
If it is very hot, a tiger might cool off in a river, but it does not like getting its face wet.
Do bears sleep all winter?
Before a bear enters its den for the winter, it will eat plenty of meat, fish, nuts, fruit, and honey. While asleep, a bear can live off the fat stored in its big body.
But some animal experts say that bears do not really go into a deep sleep during the colder months. Bears can wake easily. If a winter day is mild, bears might even leave their dens.
Do owls sleep during the day?
Most owls hunt for their prey at night, but not the small burrowing owl. This owl spends its day at work catching mice, moles, and other small mammals. It is very busy in the spring when it must find food for its young.
The burrowing owl is also known for a strange sound it makes. It seems to chuckle  much like a person.
Can turkeys fly?
Yes and no. The kind of turkeys raised on farms cannot fly. They stay on the ground eating up the corn, wheat, and barley that the farmer feeds them.
Wild turkeys, which roam the forests of North America, have stronger wings and legs than their farm cousins. They can fly when they have to and may even sleep in trees at night.
