Mark Twain's Great River.

Climb aboard, ladies and gentlemen! Do not be afraid. I am not a ghost. My disguise makes me look like Mark Twain, though, does it not? Just for today, let us pretend that I am the great writer himself.

When I was a young man, I was the captain of a riverboat. I knew this river as well as most of you know your own backyards. I wrote many books about life on the river. Today, I will be your guide. 
The Mississippi River is the longest in this great land  more than 2,000 miles  and runs through ten states. It was the Native American people who named it Mississippi, which means "Great River." Native Americans also helped guide Spanish explorers as they wrestled with the river's twists and turns.

Feel the chilly breeze! We are way up north near the border of Canada, in the state of Minnesota. Did you know that the mighty Mississippi begins as a tiny stream flowing from Lake Itasca? It is said that a drop of rain falling in Lake Itasca will reach the Gulf of Mexico  in about 90 days.
Kneel down and reach over the side of the boat. You can touch the bottom! The water up here is so cold that your hand will feel numb right away.

As we float down the river, see the twin cities of Minneapolis  and Saint Paul. Minneapolis is the largest city in Minnesota, and Saint Paul is its capital. Look at all those tall buildings!
 Take your cameras out of your knapsacks, ladies and gentlemen, and look to your right! That is the only waterfall on the entire river. Is it not beautiful? Many guests visit the waterfall each year.

See that knob of land that juts out into the river? We have just crossed the border into Iowa  a farming state known as America's "corn basket." Many people fish on the banks of the river. Corn and fish make a wonderful meal! 
Through the tree limbs, you can just make out a bridge near the town of Davenport. Today, there are many bridges that connect both sides of the wide, twisting river. The river's twists and turns seem to wrap up the high bluffs and green shores of Iowa like a big, beautiful present.

We are now at the border of my home state, Missouri. On our right is the town of Hannibal, where I was born. Many of my stories happen here in Hannibal. It is home to Huckleberry Finn and Tom Sawyer. Those boys sure have a knack for getting into trouble!

From Hannibal, it is just a short way to Saint Louis. Even in my day, Saint Louis was known as the Gateway to the West. But the soaring Gateway Arch was not built until the 1960s. It honors the role this great city played in the country's growth. 
You see, the Mississippi River was one of the main routes by which both people and goods could move. Things have changed a lot since my time, but the river looks pretty much the same to this old guide.

The next big city you see is Memphis, Tennessee. This city was named for another great river city Memphis, Egypt, on the Nile River. Memphis is known for its music. Many songs were written about the river we are on right now. 
Life was not always so peaceful, though. Many of the most ghastly Civil War battles were fought here. Note the Civil War cannon displayed along the grassy banks of Vicksburg, another historic river city.

From Vicksburg, it is smooth sailing down to Natchez. You can still visit the large earth mounds built by Native Americans of the Natchez tribe. Some of these mounds are tombs. 
The Natchez Trace, one of the earliest trails in the country, also begins here. It was used by Native Americans, explorers, and people who came to trade. Today, a modern road follows its path.

In Louisiana, the delta of the Mississippi River begins. A delta is a piece of land  roughly triangle shaped  built up by the soil and sand the river has picked up along the way and left. The delta mud is good for growing things and has long guaranteed good crops for the farmers on its shores. 
Below New Orleans, the river flows into the Gulf of Mexico. For years, goods were shipped down the river and from there, to ports all around the world. People from many of these ports came to New Orleans, and it became one of the most interesting cities in the country.

New Orleans is below the level of the river. Levees, or walls, guard the city from flooding. In 2005, Hurricane Katrina caused the levees to break, and parts of New Orleans were completely destroyed by the water. Rebuilding the great city continues to this day.

As we pull into port, ladies and gentlemen, think about what you have seen. The mighty river grew from a tiny stream thousands of miles away into a force that has given shape to America. 
And now, I, Mark Twain, wish to thank you and to bid you good day.