Amanda Has a Scare.

Amanda Snow awoke with a smile on her face. It was a day full of summer sunshine at Lake Iliamna, the largest lake in Alaska and the second largest lake in the US. Amanda was impressed at its size 78 miles long, 22 miles wide, and up to 1,192 feet deep in some places. 
Amanda's mother was a researcher. It was a hard but enjoyable job. Dr. Snow had come to the lake with her team many times. The reason for this trip was to help search for a snakelike fish that had been spotted in the lake. Since Amanda had some free time this summer, she came along. 
Lake Iliamna, set amid the foothills of the Alaska Range, is reachable only by plane. Known for its great fishing, the lake is teeming with common northern fish, and people come from far away to catch some of the largest salmon and rainbow trout in the world. 
But Amanda did not plan to fish today. She was looking forward to a walk around the lake. Mom had told her there was some wild fruit on top of the hill, and she planned to pick some for supper. 
The door to her snug little cabin room was ajar. As she lay in bed, Amanda heard her mother calling from the next room to ask if she was still asleep. Climbing out of bed, she said, "I am awake, Mom."
Dr. Snow grabbed her camera and put it in her bag with some extra film. "Have a fun day," she said as she went outside. 
The team pickup truck came down the dirt road. It bumped to a dusty halt. Amanda gave her mom a goodby wave from the cabin. 
Dr. Snow was going to film the surface of the lake while flying above it in a plane. If the team spotted the snakelike fish, they would return by boat to film it. People who claimed to have seen the fish said it was 20 to 30 feet long. Some people said it could be a mammal, a beluga. After a breakfast of oatmeal and a banana, Amanda sat outside. The sun shone and the grass sparkled. "Alaska is such an astonishing place,” Amanda said to herself. She arose from the step, went inside, and searched among the kitchen gear to find a container for the fruit she was planning to pick. 
Carrying the tin pot she had found, Amanda made her way along the path to the top of the hill. Once atop the hill, she began to pluck small, round red fruit from the bushes and drop it into the pot. 
Suddenly, Amanda became aware that she was not alone. She heard snuffling and grumbling. The bushes were moving rapidly. There seemed to be someone or something on the other side of the bush!
Amanda was alarmed. What should she do? She stopped and did not move. The thing stopped. The grumbling stopped, too. There was no movement in the bushes, but the snuffling continued. 
Amanda was very afraid. Alert in every way, she began walking away slowly. 
Suddenly, with a loud "Whuff!" a huge animal arose out of the bushes. There stood a black bear on its hind legs, peering at Amanda. 
With a shout, Amanda tossed the pot in the air. She backed away. The bear walked off, and Amanda ran back to the cabin. 
After a while, Amanda peeked outside. There was not a sound. She was happy to be back in her comfortable abode. She could not wait to tell Mom about the bear. 
Mom's return was announced by the slamming pickup truck door. As Amanda's mother entered the door of the cabin she sighed, "We didn't see the fish or anything strange today."
Amanda, hardly able to contain herself, shouted, "Wait till I tell you what I saw!"
As Amanda told her story, she began to shake, thinking about the very real danger she had been in.

The next morning, Amanda and her mother went to the place where Amanda had seen the bear. They saw some flattened bushes where the hungry animal had run amuck. They were glad to find the tin pot that Amanda had abandoned in her quick retreat. But they did not find any of the fruit. The bear had had a tasty snack. 
Dr. Snow did not sight the strange fish on this trip, but she would come back again in the fall. Amanda, though, would never forget the sight of the huge bear she had met face to face. 
