Bottlenose Dolphins.

Dolphins have fins and tails and live underwater. But they are not fish. Like you and me, dolphins are mammals.
All mammals share some physical traits. For example, mammals all take in air through the lungs and give birth to live young.
Not all dolphins are the same shape or size. One of the smallest kinds is Hector's dolphin, which lives in the South Pacific. This dolphin has a short, chunky body and a round upper, or dorsal, fin. It grows to be about 4 feet long.
The biggest dolphin is the orca. You may have heard the orca's common name the killer whale. But this name is misleading. The killer whale is not a whale at all. It is a dolphin, and it is quite tame. Still, it can grow to be up to 23 feet and 10 tons nearly twice the size of an elephant. That may make it seem frightening to people and smaller animals.
When you think of dolphins, you probably think of the bottlenose, the most common kind of dolphin. The bottlenose is a steel gray color and has a sharp dorsal fin. Its long nose has the shape of a bottle. The bottlenose dolphin grows to about 12 feet long and lives in waters all around the world. This dolphin is friendly. Some say it looks as if it smiles!
Bottlenose dolphins live in groups called pods. In these pods, they hunt for food, travel together from place to place, and take care of each other's young.
A mother bottlenose dolphin gives birth every 3 to 5 years. When a bottlenose is born, it is about 3 feet long and 30 pounds. It goes through a clumsy phase as it learns to swim, but after a week or so, the small dolphin swims quite well.
Soon the young bottlenose dolphin will start to "talk"! Dolphins do not have an alphabet or phonics rules like we do, but they can make sounds. One way dolphins use sound is to "see" things underwater. A dolphin sends a sound wave from its mouth. The sound wave speeds through the water, hits the nearest thing, and bounces back to the dolphin.
Sound travels 5 times faster in the sea than it does in our atmosphere. That is one way to explain why bottlenose dolphins use sound to see. If you look at the dolphin's physical make up, you will see it is perfect for this method.
A dolphin makes sound in a little node in its head. Then the sound passes through an organ called the melon. The melon makes the sound louder. When the sound wave comes back, it is picked up by a bone in the dolphin's face, which transmits it to the brain.
That bone is like a built in telegraph, sending signals
through the bottlenose dolphin's body. Take a look at the graphic on this page to see how it works.
Bottlenose dolphins use sound as a way to find things, but some people suspect that they use sound to talk to each other, too. A bottlenose mother will whistle for several days after giving birth so that the little one will learn how its mother sounds and will come when she calls. Dolphins can squeak, screech, chirp, and click, too. A pod of excited dolphins can make a lot of sound!
Do bottlenose dolphins really talk to each other? Experts are not sure, but they have been trying to find out for many years. In 1962, the team of the vessel Sea Quest stuck microphones to an underwater wall made from poles. When a pod of bottlenose dolphins came near, the team heard lots of chatter chirps, clicks, and all kinds of sounds.
The pod backed away and sent one dolphin to act as a scout. The scout went back to the wall, looked at it, seemed to judge that it was safe, and swam back to the pod to tell the others.
Soon all the dolphins swam through the wall, chirping and squeaking into the microphones as they passed. In fact, it may have sounded like laughter!
Some think that bottlenose dolphins may speak single words, or perhaps a whole phrase, when they talk. This has been hard to prove, and most experts do not think it is possible. Still, staff who care for and train dolphins talk to them all the time. At times, a dolphin will whistle as a trainer passes by the pool just to get the trainer to say hello!
Although we have not yet cracked the code of dolphin speech, we are still amazed by these chatty animals. Some labs have set up hotlines that link microphones in dolphins' tanks to a telephone. You can call a number from your own phone to hear bottlenose dolphins chat away underwater.
Dolphins have found a home on the Internet, too. On some sites, you can download dolphin calls, chirps, and whistles. You can connect to live podcasts and listen as the dolphins laugh and sing in real time. This gives new meaning to the term "podcast"!
Sadly, humans pose a threat to the bottlenose dolphin. Some kinds of dolphins are now endangered.
It would be a catastrophe if there were no more of these wonderful animals. But thanks to rules that keep people from harming them, bottlenose dolphins will surely triumph. And if we keep listening to them, we may just learn something.
