Rescue Dogs.

Great waves are crashing on the shore.  People are running every which way.  There are screams and shouts.  A mother struggles to lug her small children up a steep hill, calling to her oldest child to follow.  He does not hear her, so he takes shelter in a house.  But this is not a safe place.  The walls start to shake and the place fills with water. 
As if on cue, the child's pet dog appears.  The dog seems to understand that its owner is in danger. It grabs the child's shirt, drags him out, and takes him all the way up the hill to safety!
This is a true news story. The brave dog rescued a seven year old child from a bad storm. The child's pet saved his life. 
Some dogs save lives every day. They are called rescue dogs, and they work for cities, states, and relief crews around the world. 
Some dogs are bred to be rescue dogs.  Working dogs like Labs and border collies are not just friendly, beautiful dogs - they are smart and strong, too. They are likely to make great rescue dogs.  But some say any of the larger breeds can learn to rescue. Some trainers visit shelters to scout for new rescue crew members. 
No matter what breed a dog is, there are a few virtues it must have in order to be a good rescue dog. First, it must love to play. If you throw a ball, a good rescue dog will be right on it.  The dog will pursue that ball until it is found, no matter where it lands.  Then the dog will bring it back and want to play again. 
Second, a rescue dog must be relaxed around people.  It must not let sounds or other dogs sidetrack it when it is working.  A rescue dog is habitually calm and never cruel. 
Third, a rescue dog needs to be healthy and strong.  Its job is not easy. 
The dog may need to run, jump, dig, and work all day long. It must have a lot of energy. 
Most rescue dogs start life in a host home. There, a puppy learns to live with adults and children. It gets some simple training and learns some easy commands such as "sit," "stay," and "heel. "
Perhaps the greatest value in hosting a rescue dog is that you get to play and bond with a wonderful puppy.  Actually, the value is mutual.  In a good host home, a puppy will build trust in people. 
Once grown, a rescue dog is trained for six months.  It interacts with rescue crews and other dogs.  It meets its handler the person who will work with the dog.  And at the end of the training, the dog must pass a grueling test.  After it has passed the test, the dog goes home with its trainer, but the pair is due for check ups every so often to make sure there are no issues. 
The handler is now the rescue dog's coach, trainer, and best friend.  The dog lives in the handler's home. It goes to work with him or her.  A rescue dog and its handler are by each other's side all day whether they are jogging, sleeping, or playing.  At any time, a dog and handler team can be called out on a rescue. 
Dogs are trained for different kinds of rescues. Some are best at searching in the woods, hills, and grass.  Some are great at searching underwater. Others are great snow dogs that can track a person's smell through deep drifts. Some dogs are trained to work in cities and other crowded places. 
So how does a rescue dog do its job? When someone needs to be found, the first thing a handler will do is give the dog a shirt, sweater, or something the missing person wore. This gives the dog the person's smell. 
A dog has a remarkable nose.  It will pick up a smell and pursue it.  Along the way, the dog may find residue from the person's clothes or shoes.  A rescue dog can pick up clues like these from more than 1,500 feet away. 
When the rescue dog has found someone, it alerts its handler with a movement or sound. Then the real rescue starts.  The rescue crew digs, climbs, and does anything it can to bring the found person to safety. 
After a rescue, the handler will take the rescue dog away and give it a chew bone or play a quick game of tug of war.  The dog needs a small prize like this so that it knows it has done good work.  Plus, it helps to keep the dog happy about its job!
It may seem like play, but rescue is hard work.  In fact, few dogs work past the age of 8. But a rescue dog has a lot to look forward to after its work is done.  Some help train new rescue dogs. Some make visits to children at schools.  But generally, they live life as normal pets. 
Most dogs stay with the handlers they know, but if a handler cannot keep a dog, it is placed in a new, loving home.  All owners love their rescue dogs dearly.  And the feeling seems to be mutual. 
