Nat Love, American Cowboy.

It was July 4, 1876. A large, noisy crowd had gathered in the town of Deadwood. The people were there to see some cowboys rope and ride in a big contest.
 

The cowboys were among the best in the land. They looked carefully at a herd of wild mustangs. Whoever could rope, saddle, and ride one of the mustangs first would be the winner and take home the $200 prize - a huge amount of cash in 1876.
 
As soon as he heard the signal, 22 year old Nat Love ran forward, his long hair flying. Nat threw his rope around the neck of a mustang and slipped a bridle on it. Then he quickly hoisted himself up. His time was the fastest by far.
 

The crowd cheered!  Nat Love was the best cowboy in Deadwood.
 

Born a slave in Tennessee in 1854,  Nat always longed for freedom and excitement. After the slaves were freed, Nat and his family rented a small farm where they struggled to make a living. Nat's father taught the young boy to read and spell.
 
After Nat's father died,  Nat helped take care of his family and the farm.
 
Horses were always Nat's first love. The Loves's friends owned a horse ranch, and Nat enjoyed spending time there. Nat could ride horses so
well that he earned a job that paid him a few coins for each horse he
"broke," or made tame.
 
When Nat was about 15, he set out for the West, ending up in Dodge City. Cowboys from other parts of the West drove convoys of cattle to Dodge City to be sold at market.
 
After that, Nat wanted a job working at a ranch in Texas. But before his new employer would hire Nat, he made Nat prove that he could ride well. Would Nat disappoint?
 
A wild horse was brought out. When Nat climbed on the horse, it began to run and buck, trying to throw him. But Nat held on, and the boss was impressed. Nat was paid $30 a month. That was a large sum in the 1800s.
 

Unafraid of hard work, Nat quickly made his mark as a cowboy. He learned to herd cattle and rope steers. Nat enjoyed the freedom of life on the range, though it was tough and full of danger.
 
However, things began to change. By 1889, Nat could not avoid the fact that the life of a cowboy was not the same as it had been.
The railroad now stretched across the country. Cattle could be brought to market on trains instead of being herded by cowboys. Many cowboys no longer had jobs.
 
After 20 years as a cowboy, Nat had little choice but to try a new line of work. He went to Denver and joined the growing ranks of railroad workers. Nat became a porter.
