Tide Pools.

What happens twice a day on every beach in the world? The tide comes in, and waves crash against the rocks, spraying water. Seawater may drip down, as if from a faucet, or it may come in one huge wave. 
Then, twice a day, the tide withdraws back into the sea, and the sprawling sands of the beach are left behind. Puddles of seawater are trapped among the rocks around the beach. These puddles are called tide pools. 
As the water sits in a tide pool, the heat of the sun warms it up. 
Tide pools are teeming with coastal life. One kind is a plant called seaweed. Seaweed has many uses. It protects sea animals from being swept away, from the drying heat of the sun, and from the jaws and claws of predators. 
Seaweed is also a useful food source. Many small animals eat the seaweed that grows on shore and at the bottom of the sea. But animals are not the only ones to eat seaweed. People all over the world eat it raw, dried, and cooked. Seaweed is used to help make sauces and other foods thicker, too. 
Tide pools are crawling with sea animals. These include prawns, crabs, mussels, starfish, periwinkles (sea snails), and sea urchins. 
All of the sea animals that live in tide pools must be able to withstand being dry. When the sun dries up the seawater, the animals may stay dry for hours until the tide comes back in. 
Crabs are very common in tide pools. They have hard shells, which protect them from predators. They also have strong claws that they use to catch and maul the animals they eat. 
Starfish are one of the most interesting animals found in a tide pool. They get their name from their starlike shape. Each of a starfish's five arms has a white spot at its tip. The spot can detect changes in darkness and light, helping the animal to hunt. 
The starfish moves in an awkward way. It has many small spines called tube feet to help it crawl along the bottom of a tide pool. 
When a starfish wants to catch a clam or mussel, it launches its belly through an opening in its body. The belly covers the victim, and then the starfish sucks it all back in. 
The barnacle is another kind of animal often found in tide pools. Barnacles make their homes inside of brittle white shells. Barnacles stick to rocks to keep from being swept away by waves. They use their long legs to reach for and get food from the water around them. 
Tide pooling or looking for plants and animals in tide pools is a fun thing for kids and adults to do. When tide pooling, you should be very careful to not disturb the animals who make their homes there. 
Always watch where you step because it would be so easy to crush sea animals in the pools. Never pull on one that is stuck to a rock, as you could hurt or kill it. And, of course, never put things in a tide pool that do not belong there. After all, a tide pool is someone's home. 
