I Caught It!

Patty and Morgan Butler were the best of sisters. They hardly ever fought. They were playful girls, and sports were what they liked best. Mr. and Mrs. Butler were sports fans, too. 
The Butlers were a very athletic bunch. On weekdays, they brought Albert the dog to the park to run and play. On weekends, they sought out fun stuff to do, like going to swim at the lake. But what Mrs. Butler liked best was softball, and she could not wait to play the game with her daughters. 
As soon as Patty and Morgan could swing a bat, Mr. and Mrs. Butler thought they were ready to play on a team. So the girls signed up for the Sharks, and Mrs. Butler volunteered to coach. 
The next week, Mrs. Butler took her daughters shopping for softball mitts. Patty and Morgan tried on 15 mitts each, and each girl found the perfect mitt for her. Patty bought a sleek, black mitt. Morgan bought a bright red mitt with white stitching. 
The girls got ready to play. First, they had to be taught the rules. 
"Softball is a lot like baseball, except the ball is a little bigger," said Mrs. Butler. "Follow me." 
"This is home plate," she said. "This is where you will bat and where the catcher will stand. Try to hit the ball as hard as you can." Mrs. Butler took a swing. 
"Then, you will run, run, run around to each base," she called, as she trotted from home plate to first to second to third and then back home. "Got it?" she said, as she caught her breath. Her daughters nodded yes. So far, they thought softball was great. 

Then, Mrs. Butler taught her daughters how to throw. They had such great aim! Patty threw the ball from third base to her mom at first, and Morgan whipped it to her mom from way out past second base. They caught on quickly. Patty was already sure she wanted to play third base. 
Then, Mrs. Butler taught the girls to hit. They never had so much fun. And they were good hitters. Morgan could crack the ball well past second base. One of Patty's hits sailed way past the outfield. 
"Wow! " said Mrs. Butler. "It might sound haughty, and I do not mean to brag, but I cannot believe how good you girls are." 
Next, Mrs. Butler taught her daughters to catch the ball. Patty got to the ball right away, and each time it landed right in the center of her mitt. Morgan did not catch the first throw. So Mrs. Butler taught her to get under the ball and to use both hands. Morgan tried, but she did not catch any of the balls Mrs. Butler tossed. 
Morgan was distraught. It did not feel good to miss ball after ball, catch after catch. Morgan thought she was finished with softball.
But Mrs. Butler would not let her daughter quit. In her heart, she felt Morgan was a skilled athlete. Surely, all she needed was to try a little harder. 
So the next day, they all went back to the park. First, the girls batted. Then, the three of them tried to have a game of catch. Mrs. Butler tossed the ball to Patty. Patty caught it, turned around, and tossed the ball to Morgan. But Morgan missed it. She tossed it back, and they tried again. Still, Morgan missed the ball. 
Morgan was more distraught than last time. She dropped
her mitt and groaned. "I did what you taught me to, Mom, but I just do not get it! The Sharks will never want me on the team." 
"We should try one more time," said Mrs. Butler. "Our efforts will not be for naught!" 
She tossed the ball high in the air. Morgan ran. She got right underneath it. She held out her mitt. But then, as the ball was on its way down, Morgan stepped an inch to the right and just missed it. 
"See?" she cried, fraught with distress. 
"I did see," said Mrs. Butler. "You stepped away at the last second." 
Mrs. Butler was deep in thought. "Are you afraid of the ball?" she asked her daughter. 

"Afraid? Of a ball?" chuckled Morgan. "No way!" Then, as an afterthought, she said, "Well, I suppose I do not want it to hurt my hands when I catch it - or to hit me in the face." 
"That is it! " shouted Mrs. Butler. She had a plan. 
Mrs. Butler went to the shed and looked through the softball supplies. Soon she found the things she sought. She brought out three black pads and a strange looking mask. 
"This will be Morgan's softball outfit," said Mrs. Butler, with a smile. Patty giggled as Mrs. Butler helped Morgan put on the lumpy chest pad, the stiff leg pads, and the huge mask. 
Morgan thought about asking why she had to wear such silly stuff, but just as she was about to complain, Patty picked up a ball, wound up, and pitched it to her sister. 
Yikes! It was speeding right for her. Morgan stuck out her mitt and - THUMP she caught it. It landed right in the center of her mitt. 
"I caught it!" yelled Morgan, jumping for joy. 
Mrs. Butler said, "You see? That time you were not afraid because all that gear kept you safe." 
Patty pitched another ball to her sister then another and another. It was an onslaught of pitches. But Morgan was ready. She got in place and caught each pitch with no problem at all. 
Mrs. Butler said, "Morgan, this is catcher's gear. You caught the ball so well, you should be the Sharks' catcher." 
The Butler girls had a great first game. Patty played third base, and Morgan caught the ball to get two players out at home plate. 
"Hip hip hooray!" cheered Mrs. Butler. "You all ought to be proud. And we all ought to have some ice cream."
The whole team gathered at the ice cream stand. Mrs. Butler bought them cones, and the girls gulped them down. They had worked hard - and they were as hungry as sharks! 
