 Maiden Voyage, Last Voyage

It was April 10, 1912. Captain Edward Smith was standing on the bridge of the world's best known ship. Titanic was about to take its first, or maiden, voyage from England to the U.S.

Titanic was the biggest and most costly passenger ship ever built. It took more than 11,000 workers 2 years to build it. Titanic was taller than most buildings of the time, and just as heavy   over 28,000 tons. 
Titanic was also said to be unsinkable. Inside its steel hull, or body, Titanic had 16 compartments, or large rooms. The builders were sure that even if four of these rooms filled with water, the ship would still float.

Titanic was carrying about 1,400 passengers to New York. There were also about 900 men and women in the crew. Among the passengers were some of the richest and best known people in the world. Many brought costly jewels in their luggage as well as fancy clothes to wear for the many parties to be held on board.

Twenty lifeboats   enough for only 1,178 people were carefully stowed. Titanic's owners were so sure the ship was unsinkable that they did not see the need for more.

Titanic had stained glass windows and beautiful woodwork. Thousands of feet of carpet covered the floors and hallways. The ship had a huge room in which to dine, a reading room with thousands of books, a hospital, a gym, and a swimming pool. Titanic was as much a floating village as it was a ship.

Captain Smith gave the command to set sail shortly after noon on April 10, 1912. Titanic's first voyage had begun! 
For the first three days, the voyage went smoothly. Captain Smith was encouraged by the new ship's speed. The only thing that caused worry was floating ice. Other ships had sent messages to Titanic warning the crew about icebergs.

On Sunday, April 14, the sea was very still. That evening, some of the passengers held a dinner for Captain Smith. After dinner, Smith went to bed. Many of the ship's passengers were also turning in for the night. 
Suddenly, high up on Titanic's top deck, a lookout spotted a mammoth iceberg right in the ship's path. "Iceberg ahead!" he shouted to the bridge, where the crew steered the ship.

The crew put Titanic in reverse. They turned the ship all the way to port, that is, to the left. Titanic managed to miss hitting the iceberg head on, but it did hit the iceberg with its starboard, or right side. In his room, Captain Smith felt his ship shake and went to see if there was any damage. The news was not good.

The iceberg had ravaged Titanic. It had cut a huge gash along the ship's starboard side. Seawater was pouring in through the hole. Already, five of the compartments had flooded. 
Captain Smith told the crew to get the lifeboats ready. Because there were not enough lifeboats for everyone, Smith ordered the women and children onto them first.

Titanic's crew and passengers rushed to save lives. The ship sent out messages asking for help. But it would take some time for the nearest ships to reach the sinking Titanic.

As the ship's band played songs to bolster people's courage, Captain Smith stood on deck to observe the horrifying image. What was supposed to have been his greatest voyage had now become the worst sea disaster in history.

By 2:15 a.m., all the lifeboats were in the water. Then the great ship's stern, or back end, rose up out of the water. The lights went out. With a roar, Titanic slipped under the water and sank to the bottom of the sea.

By the time the sun rose, the ship that had heard Titanic's messages was able to rescue only 706 people. More than 1,500 passengers and crew were lost at sea, including Captain Edward Smith. Titanic's maiden voyage was also the ship's last.