Grace the Dancing Rat.

Once upon a time, there was a city rat. Her name was Grace. She had lots of friends, both
animals and people. Grace really did love to dance! She would prance around the city streets and sidewalks to practice. But there were too many people and too much traffic. More than once, Grace had to race out of the way of feet and wheels.

One day, Grace was hit by a bike, which made her bounce into the entrance of a lunch spot.
People ran out without paying for lunch. The cook was really mad at Grace.

The fast pace of city lite was getting to be too much for Grace. She longed for peace. She wanted a place to practice without so much going on all the time.

"There is more space in the country," said Grace. "I will be able to practice my jumps and spins without bumping into people and things. I will become a more graceful dancer in the country. I think I will find a nice place in the center of a field to live."

Grace added, "In the winter, I can ice skate on a pond and drink hot spice tea by the fire. I will put a fence around my little place to keep out the mice. The city is no place for a rat like me. I need more space. I am out of here! I will find a better place to live."

Sometimes it got so still that Grace felt like she was in a trance. She would take long walks and not see a trace of another animal. She did not see any people.

Some days Grace did very little. On these days, she would balance a piece of cake on a plate and then sit down and stuff her face. Then she would take a long nap.

Sometimes when Grace awoke from her nap, it was too late to practice. So she sat ... and sat... and sat.

Grace ate so much that she could no longer prance around with ease. She could not jump as high as she could before. Grace was not the great dancer she once had been.

Grace missed her friends, and she missed people, too. There was no one in the country to watch her dance. It was no fun to dance just for herself.

Life was dull. Grace did not want to go back to the city, but she did not want to stay in the country. Grace wanted to live in a place that was a little bit like the city and a little bit like the country. She needed balance in her life.

Grace needed to live in a place where there was space, but not too much space. She needed some of the sounds of the city, but not all of the sounds of the city. She needed a place that was not too big, but not too small. What could Grace do? Where could she go?

So Grace moved once more. She moved to a cute place that was kind of near the city and kind of near the country. She made more friends. She began to practice again.

Now Grace has great fame. She is a graceful dancer. And she has found her balance — in more ways than one!