It Pays to Advertise.

Have you heard the song "Hot Cross Buns"? Hundreds of years ago, people who made buns sang this song to tell people what they were selling. The song was an early ad  an easy way of saying advertisement. Ads have been around a long, long time.

You have seen and heard lots of ads in your life. You see them on
TV. You read them on signs, buses, bumper stickers, T shirts, and
other places.

Why do people advertise, or make ads? The main reason is to sell
things people might need and want. Those who advertise food,
clothes, games, and other goods hope you will like what you see.
They hope you will spend cash for the things they make and sell.

Let us get back to the early days of ads, though. Very early ads
were just people shouting and singing about what they had to sell.
Then, when the printing press was invented, sellers could reach
more people. They hung up posters and gave out handbills.

Ad people must have been glad when cameras were invented.
They could then take shots of all kinds of goods for ads. That way,
people could see what the goods really looked like.

When trains came along, ads got to more and more people.
Trains could move ads across the land faster than ever. Today we
have ads on TV and the Internet.

There are many kinds of ads. Some ads amuse us. Some ads
excite us. Some ads surprise us. Some use strong words like fight,
need, and amaze. Sometimes athletes and people from films and TV
help to advertise things.

Many ads try to convince us that our lives will be better if we use
the goods they sell. The more we see these goods in ads, the more
likely we are to want them.

Kids have cash to spend, and they may ask adults to spend cash
on things they want, too. Since younger kids might not understand
all the ads they see and hear, there are lots of rules for ads that kids
will see.

The main thing for us is to be wise  to think when we see and
hear ads. Ask yourself: Do I need this? Is it good for me? Will it
really work? Will it really be fun? What else do I need to learn
about it? Would I rather have something else?

Think about the job ad people have to do. They must make
people want to look at the ad. They have to make the thing it sells
look good. And of course, they have to tell the truth. It takes a lot of
work to make a good ad.

Ads are here to stay. Think for yourself, and choose wisely from
the ads you see and hear.
What ads have you seen and heard today?