The Prince and the Gobbler.

There once was a perfectly terrible monster. People called him
the Gobbler. He had great big teeth, dirty hair, and filthy fingernails.
People were disturbed by the loud, strange sounds that came from
his cave. Some said that the Gobbler ate children. He stomped
through the woods shouting, "Give me five!"

Everyone was frightened. Mothers could not sleep. They feared
that the nocturnal beast would grab the children during the night.
Help was urgently needed!

A bunch of very frightened fathers went to talk to the king. At the
castle, they found him playing checkers with Prince Perry.

"You must do something," said the fathers. "You must think of a
way to rid the world of the Gobbler before he eats the children."

The king scratched his chin. Then he called his researchers from
the lab. "Think of a way to get rid of the Gobbler," he said.

The researchers looked through lots of books until they found
something that might work.

"We will stir up this stuff and spray it everywhere," said one
researcher to the king. "When the Gobbler touches it, he will turn
into stone."

"Wait," said the king. "Perhaps everyone who goes near it will
turn to stone."

"They might," said the researchers.

"Go back and try again," shouted the king. "You have not yet
earned your pay!"

So the researchers came up with a plan for a wall around the
castle.

"Wait," said the fathers. "The wall will not help at all. We live on
the same side of the wall as the Gobbler. Prince Perry will be safe,
but not the rest of the kids."

"Go!" shouted the king to the researchers. "You will not be paid
today!"

"Excuse me, Dad," said Prince Perry. "I think people
misunderstand. I will go and talk to the Gobbler. I will get to the
bottom of this."

"What if the Gobbler eats you?" said the King.

"Not a problem," said Prince Perry. "Monsters do not eat princes.
We give them heartburn."

Prince Perry put on his best purple robe. Then he headed off in
search of the Gobbler's cave.

When he found the cave, he called, "Gobbler! Sir, are you there?"

"Yes, said the Gobbler. "What do you want?"

"I hate to disturb you, but I have come to urge you to behave. You
frighten people," said Prince Perry. "Wow, you look worse than I
had heard."

"Do not insult me!" said the Gobbler. "I do not have any clean
water in my cave. That makes it difficult to wash."

"Everyone says you eat children," said Prince Perry sternly, "and
I want to put an end to that!"

"You should not believe everything you hear," said the Gobbler.
"I have never had even one bite of a person."

"Then why is it that you go around shouting, Give me five?"

"I just want to find a friend to slap me a high five!" said the
Gobbler.

"People think you want to eat five children!" said Prince Perry.

The Gobbler looked sad.

"I was right," said Prince Perry, with a smile. "You are not so
bad." Then he added, "But wait! What about those strange sounds
you make at night?"

"I snore," said the Gobbler, "and I sneeze. The mold in my cave
makes me sneeze all night. Not sleeping makes me cranky."

"I have a plan," said Prince Perry. "You must come live in the
castle with us. We have clean water and no mold. I will be your
friend and slap high fives with you any time you want."

"Great!" said the Gobbler. "Thank you. You are a kind prince."

"And my dad will be glad to have someone else to play checkers
with," said Prince Perry.