Sky City.

In the U.S. Southwest, a very old city stands on top of a high
piece of land. It is so high that it has the nickname Sky City.

Sky City soars almost 400 feet above the land around it. People
have called Sky City home since the 1100s.

Today, not many people live in Sky City year round. Many come
up just for feast days. The rest of the time, they live in modern
homes nearby.

When people go up to Sky City, they live like people did in the old
days, with no running water and no lights. They bake bread in ovens
outside their homes. And they make wonderful pottery in the same
way it was made in the past.

The Acoma tribe of Sky City is split into groups
called clans. The Antelope Clan has the job of picking the leaders of
the tribe.

Leaders of the tribe have made a pledge to keep Sky City much as
it was long ago. They also want to teach others about what the past
was like there.

In the past, people followed a trail of little ledges cut into the
rock to get to Sky City. Today, a bus brings people up a steep road.

At the top are a group of boxlike houses made of stone and mud
brick. There are no stairs in the homes, so sturdy wooden ladders
lean on the edges of the flat roofs. The old houses look much as they
did long ago.

The best time to go to Sky City is on a feast day. There is so much
to do and see! People dance to the pounding of deerskin drums.
Others sell pottery, beadwork, and wedges of fry bread.

The fame of Acoma pottery has spread around the
world. A pot made in Sky City was picked to be on a U.S. stamp.

The pottery is made from clay dug from the earth near Sky City.
The clay is dried and ground up. It is then mixed with small bits of
old pottery, which makes the clay strong.

A pot is made from snakelike strips of clay. The potter scrapes
the walls of the pot with the edge of a gourd to make them thin.
Then the potter rubs the pot with a stone to make it smooth. The pot
is then painted with pigments made from plants. Animals, birds, or
a pattern of lines are painted on the pot. After the pot is painted, the
potter fires it in a pit.

Today, this handmade pottery costs a lot. But some people get
pots for free  if they are lucky and happen to be in Sky City on a
feast day. At the end of a feast day, some pots are tossed over the
edge of a roof! First, members of the tribe toss food and candy.
People dodge the falling gifts, then rush to grab them.

When it is time for the pots to be tossed, the people on the
ground begin to chant, "Toss it here!" The people on the roof judge
where the loudest sounds come from and toss down the pots.

Lucky people who catch a pot can take it home so they will
always remember the trip they took back through time in Sky City.
