Corny.

Morton surely did love corn  all sorts of corn.

"I do not know why we did not name you Cornell," said his dad,
with a smile.

Morton asked, "Can I please change my name?"

Mom told Morton that she and Dad had worked on picking a
name that they both wanted, so he should keep it.

Each morning, Morton ate corn flakes with milk before he left the
house. For lunch, if there were corn dogs, Morton was happy.

But there was one kind of corn Morton did love more than any
other  corny jokes! The worse they were, the better.

Morton met his friend Boris to walk to the bus. "Hi, Boris," said
Morton. "Hey, do you know why goats have to wear bells?"

Boris stopped to think about it and then asked, "Do we have a
quiz today? Do you think that will be on the quiz? Why would goats
need bells?"

Morton gave a chuckle. "Their horns do not work. Get it? You
see, goats have horns, and..."

Boris groaned. "You got me with one of your corny jokes,
Morton," he said. Then he looked at his friend. "That one was really
bad," he said.

For lunch that day, there was chicken and corn on the cob.
Morton was so happy that he ate all his corn and some of Boris's,
too.

After lunch, the class had a meeting. There was going to be a
show, and any kid who wanted to could be in it.

"You can sing, dance, or tell jokes," said Ms. Jordan. "Or you can
work on the stage sets. There are lots of jobs."

But Morton was sure of what he wanted to do. He would tell
jokes, of course! Morton understood that he had to find the worst
corny joke of all.

At supper that night, Morton told his mom and dad about the
show. He was talking so fast, he almost forgot to eat his pork ribs
and corn bread. Almost.

The next day, Morton began to look for the worst corny joke he
could find. He asked all his friends to help him.

Lin had one. "Why do bees hum?" she said.

"I do not know," said Morton.

"They do not know the words to the song," said Lin.

"That is a good one," Morton said.

Mark said, "Listen to this joke. What did the stamp say to the
envelope?"

"What did it say?" asked Morton.

"I am stuck on you," said Mark.

"Now, that is bad!" Morton said.

That night, Morton made popcorn. Then he read joke books until
he fell asleep.

In the morning, Morton tried out a joke on his dad. "Dad, what
do cows give each other when they meet?" he said.

"I do not know... a high five?" said Dad.

"A milkshake!" said Morton. "You know, cows give milk, and
people shake hands when they meet."

"I got it," groaned Dad. "That is one bad joke."

Boris called to say that he was late. He said, "I will meet you at
the corner."

Morton began to chuckle. He said to Boris, "That is what one wall
said to the other."

"What?" said Boris.

"You know," said Morton. "Walls meet at the corner of a room."

"Another bad joke," said Boris. "You are full of them."

Here is the joke Morton picked for the show. It was the best.
Why? It was about corn and it was corny at the same time.

"Why did the corn get mad at the farmer?" said Morton. "The
farmer was always pulling its ears."
