Alice's Strange Friend.

Do you know the story of Alice in Wonderland?

Kids all around the world love the story of the young girl who falls down a rabbit hole - or at least dreams that she does.

In her dream, Alice sees a white rabbit sporting a watch. Since this is strange, Alice runs after the rabbit and follows him as he goes down his rabbit hole.

Alice falls down the rabbit hole and enters a strange world. Several animals are sitting and drinking tea with a very odd man who makes hats.

When Alice tries to sit down for tea, the others are all sitting in one corner. There is lots of room to sit. Yet they order Alice not to sit down, saying there is not room.

Even stranger, there is a dormouse sleeping while the others drink tea. They are resting their elbows on him as if he were a pillow. He does not seem to mind.

Most Americans have never seen a dormouse, since the animal does not live in North America. But it is quite common in Great Britain, where Alice in Wonderland takes place.

A dormouse is a small, plump animal about three inches long. It has short, round ears and a sweet face. It has long black whiskers on each side of its nose.

When a dormouse is born in the summer, it has gray fur on top and white fur on its underside. The gray fur turns rust brown while the dormouse is sleeping through its first winter. You can tell that a dormouse is not a chipmunk or a mouse by the shape of its ears and its rust brown color.

The dormouse does not belong to the same family as mice and rats. Dormice are dormant in winter. That means they sleep. Mice and rats do not sleep all winter.

Dormice are nocturnal. They sleep during the day and work and play at night. Their long black whiskers act as sense organs to help dormice "see" as they scamper about in the night.

The dormouse makes three kinds of nests. The biggest is the summer breeding nest, where up to five dormice may be born in one litter. After it is about forty days old, a young dormouse makes a nest of its own. Both the summer nest and its own nest are low to the ground.

Then the young dormouse also makes a nest just for sleeping through the winter. It may be in a fork of a tree or in a hole under the ground.

So the next time you fall down a rabbit hole - or dream that you do - remember that dormice are more likely to search for nuts than drink tea with you.