Stage Fright.

"I want to be in Kids on Stage," said Nick.
"Mr. Chen will net let you be in it," said Sage. "You cannot sing.
You cannot dance. You cannot play anything."

"I will bring Gene, my gerbil," said Nick. "Gene can do
gymnastics. He can do tricks on his wheel. He can stand up on his
back legs and eat seeds."

"Come on!" said Sage. "Kids on Stage is for kids  not for pets."

"I do not think Mr. Chen will let you bring Gene," said Nick's best
friend, Jack. "But you can ask him."

When Nick went to ask about Gene, his teacher said, "We have
never had a gerbil on stage before."
"Gene is gentle," said Nick. "And he is funny."

"Well..." said Mr. Chen.
"And he will stay in his cage when he is not on stage," said Nick.
"Why not?" said Mr. Chen. "It could be fun."

The day for Kids on Stage came at last. Nick gave Gene a bath
and put hair gel and a ribbon on him.

Nick put fresh bedding in Gene's cage and hung fringe on it.
Then he put some seeds in a bag. Nick and Gene were ready.

Kids on Stage took place on a wooden stage in the gym. Some
kids sang, and some kids did a dance. Ruth played the drums. Steve
played the sax.

At last it was time for Nick and Gene to go on. The stage hands
put a desk on the stage. Nick put the cage next to it, lifted the hinge,
and reached in to pick up Gene.

Nick sat him on the desk. Then he got cut Gene's wheel. Nick
spoke into the mike. "You will like the tricks Gene can do," he said.

As the kids watched, Gene sat up on his back legs. He cracked the
seeds Nick gave him, ate them, and tossed the shells on the stage.

"Gene, do not litter!" said Nick.

Nick could hear the kids chuckle. Then Nick picked up Gene's
mess.

Next, Gene did some gymnastics. Nick helped Gene stand on his
hands. He helped him do a flip. More chuckles came from the kids.

"You will love this trick," said Nick. "Gene can make his wheel go
fast!"

Nick put Gene in his wheel. Gene walked and the wheel went
around. Then he ran, and the wheel spun faster and faster.

The kids cheered and yelled. Gene did not like the strange, loud
sounds. He had stage fright! He did not stay in his wheel. He did not
stay on the desk. He did not stay on the stage. He took a plunge off
the stage and ran to get away from the loud sounds.

The kids in the gym wondered if Gene was just doing another
trick.

"Stop him! Stop him!" shouted Nick.

The kids and Mr. Chen jumped up to try to catch Gene. Round
and round the gym ran Gene. Round and round the gym ran the
teacher and the kids.

At last, Gene spotted his cage on the stage. He jumped onto the
stage and ran right in. He hid in a tube that Nick kept there.

When Kids on Stage ended, all the kids cheered. Mr. Chen said,
"Thank you all."

Lots of kids told Nick that Gene was the best part! Sage had to
admit that a gerbil act was a nice change.