Rainbows.

 You go outside after a rain shower. 
The sun shines. You see a glow in the sky. 
Wow . . . a rainbow!

You remember the spectrum of the 
rainbow, of course, from red to purple. 
But do you understand how rainbows 
are made?

Long ago, people did not understand 
what rainbows were. So they invented tales 
about how rainbows were made. Now we 
understand and can explain rainbows.

You may think of sunlight as white, 
but sunlight is made up of many tints. 
When light passes through something 
clear, it slows down and bends. Each
tint bends in its own way, so we see each 
one by itself.

Right after a rain shower, many 
droplets are still in the air. When the 
sun comes out, its light passes through 
the rain droplets. The light bends. In 
the bright sunlight, a rainbow puts on a 
show in the sky. The "white light" has 
turned into a rainbow!

You might also see rainbows that 
are not in the sky. The fine mist from 
waterfalls and fountains can sometimes 
make rainbows.

You cannot see a rainbow if you walk 
right underneath it. The sun must be 
behind you and the rain droplets must be 
in front of you.

A prism is a kind of glass that 
helps light change into a rainbow. Many 
people like to hang prisms in windows 
to catch the sunlight and make rainbows.

There are many tales and songs about 
rainbows. One old tale says that there is 
a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. 
No one has found it, though!

Some people paint rainbows. Many 
people take shots of rainbows 
with cameras. People plant flowers with the 
many shades of the rainbow. Rainbows 
just seem to make people feel good.

Would it surprise you to learn that 
you can make a rainbow? On a sunny 
day, spray a fine mist through a hose. As 
the droplets fall, a rainbow will appear.

You can make a rainbow inside, too. 
Put a large glass container of water in a 
sunny window. The sunlight will pass 
through it and bend. You will see the 
same tints in your homemade rainbow as 
in a real rainbow. Use a big, white sheet 
to "catch" the rainbow.

A long time ago someone said,
My heart leaps up when I behold
A rainbow in the sky.
If you have seen a rainbow, you can
understand the wonder this person felt.
