A Hard Game.

Golf is a hard game to play, but for many people, it is the best sport of all.

The object of golf is to get a ball in a cup with the least amount of swings, or strokes, of the club. Each swing is counted in the score. In golf, a low score is a good score.
 
Golf is played on a course. This is a large parcel of land that has been carved into 18 parts, called holes. Golfers must use a golf club to get the ball into a cup, which is set in a real hold on each part of the course.

A golf course is not all flat. There are hills, woods, ponds or water holes, and some sandy places. The different kinds of land make the course harder, but more fun to play.

Each of the 18 holes is different. At some holes, the golfers must hit the ball just 100 yards. At others, the golfer must hit the ball much farther - up to 250 yards.

Players begin each hold at a tee. The tee is a small holder that the ball sits on. The land around the tee is flat and smooth. The golfer swings a club and hits, or drives, the ball as far as possible.

After that, the ball is always hit from the spot on the ground where it lands. The golfer does not use the tee again until the start of the next hole.

The land that goes right down the middle from the tee to the cup is called the fairway. The fairway, with its short grass, is where players want the ball to land. On both sides of the fairway, there is taller, thicker grass. If the ball lands there, it is very hard to hit.

Sometimes there are wood beyond this tall grass. It is very hard to hit the ball from the woods. There may also be a pond or small water hole. If the ball lands in the water, the player has to use a different ball and hit it at the edge of the water hole or pond.

Sand traps, also near the fairway, make the game harder and more fun. It is very hard to shoot a ball out of the sand.

Most players have to hit the ball a few times to get it to the green.
This is where the cup is. The ball must go into the cup to end a hole.
A pole with a flag marks the spot so the player can find the target.

Once the player's ball reaches the green, it is getting close to the cup. The green looks like a carpet, with its very short grass. This
short grass allows the ball to roll smoothly toward the cup.
 
Like most sports, golf takes a jot of skill. There are different clubs to use for different kinds of shots. It takes smart players to know which club to use for each shot. They may use one club to drive the ball far and a club called a putter on the green when they do not have to hit the ball so far.
 
Players must use a slightly different kind of swing for each kind of club as well. The player's arms need to be held in just the right way to make the ball go to the right place.

Some golfers are experts. Others just like to be outside on a beautiful golf course. Golf is a great game whether you play to win or just for fun.
 
 