The Best Thing to Be.

Brian was restless. He wanted to be like the 
heroes he read about in his books.
"Being a kid isn't exciting," thought Brian. "I
want praise and excitement."

Brian thought and thought. "I will not be
Brian anymore," he decided. "I will be Fred the
Fearless Firefighter."

Fred the Fearless Firefighter rushes to rescue
victims from burning skyscrapers! He is strong
and brave!

"Brian, you're soaking our lunch!" yelled Dad.
"I'm not Brian," said Brian. "I'm Fred the Fearless
Firefighter. I will rescue you from this blaze! I am
strong and brave!"
"And now you will be hungry," said Dad.

"Firefighters don't get much praise around here,"
thought Brian. "I will have to be someone else."
Again he thought and thought. "I know! I'll be Al
the Awesome Astronaut!"

Al the Awesome Astronaut commands a
rocket. He flies faster and farther than any
astronaut before him.
He discovers new planets and visits them.
He is smart and fearless!

"What happened, Brian?" asked Dad.
"I'm not Brian," said Brian. "I'm Al the Awesome
Astronaut! I flew fast and far and explored a new
planet. I was smart and fearless!"
Dad helped Brian down from the tree. "Welcome
back to our planet, Al," Dad chuckled.

"Astronauts don't get much praise around here,"
Brian thought. There must be something else to
be."
"I know! I'll be a knight in shining armor. I'll be 
Sir David the Dragon Hunter!"

Sir David is brave and loyal. He travels the planet.
Only Sir David can defeat the horrible, fire-breathing
dragon! He can return the stolen treasure to the
king!
The king will reward him with gold!

"What's going on here?" asked Dad.
"Have no fear! I will save you from the
horrible dragon! said Brian.
"If Muffy is a dragon, who are you?" asked Dad.
"I am Sir David the Dragon Hunter! I must
take the treasure from this dragon and return it
to the king!"
"I wonder what the king will do with Muffy's
dirty old bone," said Dad.

Brian sighed. Nobody saw how brave and loyal
he was. Nobody would reward him with gold.
How could a kid have some excitement?

"Why are you dressed that way, Dad?"
asked Brian.
"I'm not Dad. I'm Brian the Fantastic Kid.
Everyone knows a kid is the best thing to 
be!" said Dad. 