Clare's Secret.

Clare and her twin brother Brad were standing
on a small overlook. Below them, Sprat Creek was
frozen solid. Across the creek, a sign said:
Sprat Creek Ice Skating Races.

Some skaters and a small, striped tractor were on
the creek. The tractor scraped a blanket of snow off
the frozen creek.

The skaters were getting set for the races.
Some stretched. Some zoomed from place to place.
Some twisted and twirled.

Lots of skating fans were standing at the creek.
They had on coats with hoods, extra scarfs, and
bright stocking caps. They stomped their feet and
clapped their hands in the cold.

On the overlook, Brad said, "We must get to the
creek, Clare." Clare stared at the winter sky. She felt
like the sky looked -- gloomy and gray.

Clare followed Brad on foot. She wished she
could disappear and skip the race. She had a secret,
but she was afraid to tell her brother.

Last year, Brad took the first prize ribbon at the 
Sprat Creek Ice Skating Races. He was the best 
skater in the short race.

This year, Brad and Clare practiced skating
every day after school. They skated and skated.
Brad and Clare got stronger and faster.

Clare's secret was that she was faster than Brad.
At practice for the short race, Clare was careful to 
let Brad take first place. Clare just glided at the end.

This was the day of the real races. Clare had to 
try her best to win the short race. But if she won,
Brad might be unhappy or feel foolish.

When they got to Sprat Creek,
aimless snowflakes floated in the sky.
Clare said softly, "I have a secret to
tell you, Brad."

"First, I have surprise for you," said Brad. "Clare, I 
know you are the faster person in the short race. I
have a way we might both win fair and square."

"I am going to switch and enter the long race,"
said Brad. "Is that agreeable?" Just as Clare began to
speak, Brad grinned and skated to the starting line.

It was night. The races were over. Bright stars
twinkled in the sky. In a home near Sprat Creek, the
smiling twins slept, replaying the races in their
dreams. Three ribbons hung on their wooden beds.
Each said, "First Place."