
A Big Problem.
Trish wanted badly to play baseball, but her mom wanted her to play the trumpet. This was a big problem. The trumpet lessons were at the same time as the baseball tryouts and all the baseball games. Trish could not do both. She felt bad. She wanted to do things that made her mother happy. But she did not want to play the trumpet.
Trish sat on the steps of her
house, sadly watching the clouds go
by. Her best pal Brandon stopped by
on his way home. He could tell that
Trish was sad. She would not smile
at his jokes, and those jokes were
funny.

She pouted when he asked her
what the problem was.

"I just wish I did not have to play
the trumpet," Trish said glumly.
"I wish Mom would not make me
take lessons. I want to be a baseball
catcher. I am one of the best
catchers around. But I do not play
the trumpet well. In fact, I stink!"

"Did you try talking to your
mom?" asked Brandon.
"No. And I do not want to," Trish
told her pal. "Here's the thing. She
wanted to play the trumpet when
she was small, but her mom did not
have the cash. She thinks playing the
trumpet is the best thing. It may be
best to her, but not to me. Baseball is
my best thing."

"I still think you should talk to
her," said Brandon. "You have to try!"
"Well, yes," Trish had to admit.
"I suppose so." She gave Brandon a
hopeful smile.
"That's the way!" Brandon said
with a grin. "Hang in there! And tell
me what happens."
The next day, Trish woke up at
six. She began to think about what
she would say. She sat around until
her mom woke up. Mom was still
in her bathrobe and slippers when
Trish went to talk to her.
"Something is on your mind,
Trish," Mom said. "I can tell. What is it?"

"Well, it's this," said Trish. "I do
not like to play the trumpet, Mom.
What I most want to do is to play
baseball. I want to be a catcher. I
want to try out today, but I can't."

"Why can't you try out?" asked
Mom.

"My trumpet lesson is the same
time as the tryouts," Trish said sadly.
"And all the baseball games are at the
same time as my trumpet lessons."

"Well, that is a problem," said
Mom. "Did you just say that you do
not like to play the trumpet?"

"Yes," said Trish. "You like it.
That is why I play. But I sound bad
when I play. It is just no fun at all."

"I think you play fine, Trish," said
Mom. "But if you do not like it, it
will be difficult to do well. I want
you to do something that brings out
the best in you. If I did not let you
try to be a catcher, you would be sad,
the way I was when I could not play
the trumpet. So go to the baseball
tryout today. Go and do your best."

"Mom, I love you!" Trish shouted
and gave her mom a hug. "Maybe
next fall I will go back to the
trumpet, but today I just want to go
catch some baseballs!"

Trish left to tell Brandon and to
thank him for helping her. On the
way, she could not help thinking
about her mom. It made her smile.

"I am so glad that I talked to her!"
Trish said to herself. She felt proud.
"I did a brave thing. And Mom
does not expect me to be like her.
She just wants me to be the best
that I can be!"

It pays to talk things out.