Ned's Pout.

It was a mild spring day. Miss Prout and her class were going on an outing to South Bend- the home of Miss Prout's Gram and Gramps. The house was in the country.
All the kids had a smile but Ned. He was pouting.

"I hate the country, said Ned. "You do?" asked Letty.
"I do. It is no fun there," said Ned.
"South Bend is fun,” said Miss Prout. "You will find lots to do." Ned was still pouting.

Just then, the bus went around a bend. There was South Bend, a big old house on a hill. Standing outside were Miss Prout's Gram and Gramps. "Gram! Gramps!" shouted Miss Prout. "I am so happy to be here!" "And we are so glad you could come," said Gram.


"Hello, class," said Gramps.
Kids rushed around Gram and Gramps, but Ned was still pouting.
"Who is this with a pout?" asked Gramps. "Ned," said Letty. "He hates the country."

"Well," said Gramps, "South Bend is fun and full of wonders. Why, just today something wonderful happened."
"What?" asked all the kids but Ned.
"You will find out," said Gram. "Let us go in to lunch."

After lunch, Gramps, Miss Prout, and the kids put eggs in baskets. Ned climbed on a gate and began to swing on it. He did not smile, but he did not pout.
"When I was a kid, I would swing on that gate with my cousins," said Miss Prout. "what fun we had!"
Ned almost had a grin.

Gramps then led the class to a lake. They walked along the bank.
"There are fish called trout in the lake," said Gramps.
"My cousins and I would have fishing contests," said Miss Prout. "Did you win?" Ned asked Miss Prout.

"No," said Miss Prout. "My cousin Kelly would always win."
"I bet I could win," said Ned. "I wish we could have a contest." "There is not time," said Miss Prout, winking at Gramps.
Ned did not smile, but he did not pout.

"The next stop, " said Gramps, "Is today's wonderful happening." Gramps led the group to a small pink piglet and its mom.
"It is so cute," said Ned.

Ned and Letty were among the group that stayed to watch the piglet. Miss Prout went to help fix snacks. Gramps watched the kids.

After the snacks were fixed, Gram and Miss Prout called to the group watching the piglet. The kids came outside - all but Ned. They chatted and ate.
"There is one snack left," said Gram. "Who is missing?" "Ned!" shouted Letty. "He is still watching the piglet."

Gramps and Miss Prout went to get Ned, but he was not with the piglet. Suddenly there was a sound from above.
"Where did you and your cousins always hide long ago?" Gramps asked. "In the hayloft," said Miss Prout.
Gramps nodded. Then he climbed the ladder.

Gramps found Ned. "Well, Ned, I think you like the country," he said. "You can come back anytime." Ned's pout went away!
Miss Prout and her class gave a big wave to Gram and Gramps from the bus. Ned had the biggest smile and the longest wave.
