Rob's Wish.

Cape Cod was home to Rob
Santos. The sea was all around him
on the Cape, which was fine with Rob.
He wanted to spend as much time
as he could by the sea and on the sea.
His goal was to make enough cash,
with help from his dad, to get a small
boat. Then he would roam the seas,
maybe head up the coast.
Rob had just one problem, and it was
not a small one. He had to coax his dad
into letting him have a boat. This would
not be so simple. Last summer, Rob
was careless with his dad's boat. He had
lost one of the oars. Then he had badly
banged the boat when he had pulled in
to the dock. His dad had said that Rob
hadn't treated the boat with care.
Rob had gone to the store to get an
oar. He had fixed the boat. But his dad
did not think that was enough. He did
not trust Rob to take care of a boat. Rob
had to make it clear to his dad that he
could be trusted. But what could he do?
Then one summer day, Rob was
at the beach, near the dock, soaking
up some sun. Suddenly, there was
a loud scream. Rob quickly sat up.
A small child was floating on a
rubber raft out at sea. The wind
must have come up suddenly and
pushed the rubber raft out from shore.
The child's mom was the one who had
screamed. Rob watched her run into the
waves to get her child, but the child was
out of reach.
Rob quickly jumped up, dashed to
the dock, and leaped into his dad's boat.
He grabbed the oars and locked them
into the oarlocks. He headed out quickly.
As Rob pulled on the oars, sweat dripped
off his chin. He pushed the boat faster
and faster through the waves.
At last, Rob reached the child and
pulled her into his boat. She was happy
to be safe and gave him a hug. Tying the
raft to his boat with a rope, Rob dragged
the raft behind him to shore.
When Rob got back on land, the
child's mom ran and hugged him. As she
held her child, some watchers came up to
Rob and patted him on the back. He had
acted quickly and bravely, they told him.
"Rob," someone said. Rob spun around.
It was his dad. "I am proud of what you
just did. So here is what I am going to do.
I will let you use my boat all summer. If
you take care of it, then I will help you get
a boat that is all yours. What do you say?"
Rob stuck out his hand. "It's a deal,
Dad," he said with a big grin.