A FEARFUL TALE. 

A ketch was sailing with a fleet of
ships when a great gust of wind came up.
The sea became black and choppy, tossing
the big ships as if they were beanbags.
The skipper sat up in his bunk.
He felt the rolling of the sea and could
hear the screeching wind. He rang the
bell calling all the mates to the upper
deck. Then he quickly dressed and
climbed the deck ladder.
When the skipper came on deck,
the wind and rain tore into him.
Hail beat against his cheek. He could
barely see the other ships in the fleet.
He grabbed the ropes as the ketch
swung from side to side under the big
sea swells. Waves crashed on the deck,
and the planks creaked from the strain.
Each mate was squinting to see
the skipper. They were speechless with
fear as they strained to hear him speak.
Deep inside, they were fearful. No one had
seen such a wild sea before. Thick black
clouds hung in the sky, waiting to dump
more rain and hail on the rolling ketch.
The men all wondered if the sea would
sweep them off the decks to a death at
sea. Each man was thinking of home and
wishing he could be there, safe and sound.
As the skipper began to speak, a swell
lifted up the ketch and swept it on top of
some rocks near the coast. The hull was
split, and the sea came gushing in.
The skipper yelled, "Get to the life
rafts!" The men jumped into the roaring
black sea. They reached out and clung
to life rafts that were already floating on
the crashing waves.
They were a lucky bunch. Each
man held onto the life raft until he was
close enough to drag himself to shore.
Then the men began to seek shelter from
the rain. Some went to huddle under trees,
and some lay under rock cliffs. Others
found a small cave and kept safe there.
They all were picked up after three days.
They needed a hot meal and dry clothes,
but were happy to have cheated death.
As the skipper will tell you, the sea
can be your best friend. But it can also
be mean and greedy, wanting to grab
and keep those who ride its waves.
This time, though, the greedy sea lost.
